1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Public Notice on Matters Regarding Refining the Filing of Related Party 
Transactions and Administration of Contemporaneous Transfer Pricing 
Documentation 
Public Notice of the State Administration of Taxation [2016] 42 
To refine the filing of related party transactions and the administration of 
contemporaneous transfer pricing documentation (hereinafter referred to as the 
“contemporaneous documentation”), the Public Notice is hereby issued  in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of “Enterprise Income Tax Law of the 
People’s Republic of China” (hereinafter referred to as the “Enterprise Income Tax 
Law”) and its implementation regulations, and “The Tax Collection and Administration 
Law of the People’s Republic of China” (hereinafter referred to as the “Tax Collection 
and Administration Law”) and its implementation regulations. 
1. 
A tax resident enterprise that pays Enterprise Income Tax according to its 
financial records and a non-tax resident enterprise that has an establishment or a 
place of business in China and settles Corporate Income Tax based on its actual 
accounts  shall, at the time of submitting its annual Enterprise Income Tax return, 
report related party transactions based on its dealings with related parties, and 
file the “People’s Republic of China Enterprise Annual Reporting Forms for 
Related-Party Transactions (2016 version)”. 
 
2. 
Any of the following relationships of an enterprise (one party) with other 
enterprises, organisations or individuals (the other party) shall constitute a 
“related party relationship” as stipulated in this Public Notice :  
 
(i) One party directly or indirectly owns 25% or more shares of the other party; 
or a common third party directly or indirectly owns 25% or more of shares of 
both parties.  
 
Where one party indirectly holds the other party’s shares through an 
intermediate party, so long as it owns 25% or more shares of the 
intermediate party, the percentage of the other party’s shares held by it is 
equal to the percentage of the other party’s shares held by the intermediate 
party.  
This is an unofficial English translation of Public Notice on Matters 
Regarding Refining the Filing of Related Party Transactions and 
Administration of Contemporaneous Transfer Pricing Documentation 
(Public Notice of the State Administration of Taxation [2016] 42). In the case 
the unofficial English translation conflicts with the content in the original 
Public Notice in Chinese, the Public Notice in Chinese shall prevail.  
 

2 
 
 
Where two or more natural persons, who are spouses, related by lineal 
consanguinity, siblings, or in other custodianship/family maintenance 
relationships, hold the shares of a same enterprise, the percentage of shares 
held by them shall be aggregated in the calculation to determine related party 
relationship.  
 
(ii) One party owns shares of the other party, or a common third party owns 
shares of both parties, even though the percentage of shares held in either 
situation is less than the percentage as specified in item (i), the total debt 
between both parties accounts for 50% or more of either party’s total paid-in 
capital, or 10% or more of one party’s total debt is guaranteed by the other 
party (except for loans or guarantees from or between independent financial 
institutions). 
 
Ratio of total debt to paid-in capital = annual weighted average debt / annual 
weighted average paid-in capital, where:   
Annual weighted average debt = 1
i
n
 (book value of debt (i) x 
corresponding number of days outstanding / 365;   
Annual weighted average paid-in capital = 1
i
n
 (book value of paid-in 
capital (i) x corresponding number of days invested) / 365. 
(iii) One party owns shares of the other party, or a common third party owns 
shares of both parties, even though the percentage of shares held in either 
situation is less than the percentage as specified in item (i), the business 
operations of one party depend on the proprietary rights, such as patents, 
non-patented technological know-how, trademarks, copyrights, etc., provided 
by the other party. 
 
(iv) One party owns shares of the other party, or a common third party owns 
shares of both parties, even though the percentage of shares held in either 
situation is less than the percentage as specified in item (i), the business 
activities, such as purchases, sales, receipt of services, provision of services, 
etc., of one party are controlled by the other party. 
 
The aforementioned “controlled” refers to the case where one party has the 
right to make decisions on the other party’s financial and operational policies 
and can therefore derive benefits from the other party’s operations. 
 
(v) More than half of the directors or senior management (including secretaries 
of the board of directors of listed companies, managers, deputy managers, 
financial controllers and other personnel specified in the company’s articles 
of association) of one party are appointed or assigned by the other party, or 
simultaneously serve  as directors or senior management of the other party; 
or more than half of the directors or senior management of both parties are 
appointed or assigned by a common third party.  
 

3 
 
(vi) Two natural persons who are spouses, related by lineal consanguinity, 
siblings, or in other custodianship/family maintenance relationships have one 
of the relationships as specified in items (i) to (v) with one party and the other 
party respectively. 
 
(vii) Two parties substantially have common interests in other ways. 
 
Except for item (ii) in this Article, the aforementioned related party relationship 
should be recognized for the period during which it exists, in the event it changes 
during the filing year.  
 
3. 
Any shareholding by the State or association through assignment of directors or 
senior management by the state-owned assets management authorities, and 
therefore qualified as the relationship as specified in Items (i) to (v) of Article 2, 
will not be deemed to constitute a “related party relationship” as specified in this 
Public Notice. 
 
4. 
Related party transactions mainly include: 
 
(i) Transfer of the right to use or ownership of tangible assets.  Tangible assets 
include merchandise, products, buildings, transportation vehicles, machinery 
and equipment, tools, apparatus, etc. 
 
(ii) Transfer of financial assets.  Financial assets include accounts receivables, 
notes receivables, other receivables, equity investments, debt investments, 
derivative financial instruments, etc.  
 
(iii) Transfer of the right to use or ownership of intangibles.  Intangibles include 
patents, non-patented technological know-how, trade secrets, trademarks, 
brand names, customer lists, sales channels, franchise rights, government 
licenses, copyrights, etc.   
 
(iv) Financing.  Financing includes all types of long-term and short-term loans 
(including group’s cash pool), guarantees, all types of interest-bearing 
advance payments and deferred receivables or payables, etc.  
 
(v) Services.  Services include market survey, marketing planning, agency, 
design, consulting, administrative services, technical services, contract 
research and development, maintenance services, legal services, financial 
services, audit, recruitment, training, centralised procurement, etc. 
 
5. 
Tax resident enterprises that fall into any of the following categories shall file the 
Country-by-Country Report at the time of submitting their “Annual Related Party 
Transactions Reporting Forms”: 
 
(i) 
The resident enterprise is the ultimate holding company of a multinational 
enterprise’s (hereafter referred to as the “MNE”) group  having total 
consolidated group revenue of more than 5.5 billion RMB during the fiscal 
year immediately preceding the reporting fiscal year as reflected in its 
consolidated financial statements for such preceding fiscal year.  

4 
 
Ultimate holding company is the enterprise that can consolidate the financial 
statements of all constituent entities that belong to its MNE group and cannot 
be included in the consolidated financial statements of another enterprise. 
Constituent entities shall include: 
 
a. Any entity that is included in the consolidated financial statements of the 
MNE group. 
 
b. Any entity that would be included in the consolidated financial statements 
of the MNE group if equity interest in such entity were traded on a public 
securities exchange.  
 
c. Any entity that is excluded from the consolidated financial statements of 
the MNE group solely on size or materiality grounds. 
 
d. Any permanent establishment that prepares a separate financial 
statement. 
 
(ii) 
The resident enterprise that has been appointed by the MNE group to file the 
Country-by-Country Report.  
The Country-by-Country Report is to disclose information relating to the global 
income, taxes and business activities of all constituent entities of the MNE group 
to which the ultimate holding company belongs on a country-by-country basis.   
 
6. 
For a MNE group whose ultimate holding company is a resident enterprise in 
PRC, if its information is related to national security, it can be exempted from 
filing the Country-by-Country Report in whole or in part in accordance with the 
applicable laws and regulations.  
 
7. 
Tax administrations may exchange the Country-by-Country Report in accordance 
with tax treaties, agreements or arrangements that PRC has entered into. 
 
8. 
For an enterprise that is not required to file the Country-by-Country Report under 
the provisions of Article 5 of this Public Notice, tax administrations can request 
the enterprise to provide the Country-by-Country Report during a special tax 
investigation if the MNE to which the enterprise belongs is required to prepare the 
Country-by-Country Report in accordance with the relevant regulations of another 
country and one of the following conditions is met: 
 
(i) 
The MNE has not filed the Country-by-Country Report to any other countries.  
(ii) 
Although the MNE has filed the Country-by-Country Report to another 
country, there is no mechanism in place to exchange Country-by-Country 
Report between China and that country.  
(iii) Although the MNE has filed the Country-by-Country Report to another 
country, and there is a mechanism in place to exchange the 
Country-by-Country Report between China and that country, the 
Country-by-Country Report has not been successfully exchanged to China. 
 

5 
 
9. 
Enterprises that encounter actual difficulties in filing the “Annual Reporting Forms 
for Related Party Transactions” on time as required may apply for an extension of 
time in accordance with relevant provisions of the Tax Collection and 
Administration Law and its implementation regulations. 
 
10. Enterprises shall, in accordance with Article 114 of the implementation 
regulations of the Enterprise Income Tax Law, prepare contemporaneous 
documentation with respect to their related party transactions for each tax year 
and submit the documentation upon the tax administration’s request. 
 
Contemporaneous documentation may include master file, local file and special 
issue file. 
 
11. Any enterprise that meets one of the following criteria shall prepare a master file : 
 
(i) The enterprise that has conducted cross-border related party transactions 
during the tax year concerned, and the MNE group to which the ultimate 
holding company that consolidates the enterprise belongs, has prepared a 
master file.   
 
(ii) The annual total amount of the enterprise’s related party transactions exceeds 
1 billion RMB. 
 
12. The master file is to provide an overview of the global business operations of the 
MNE group to which the ultimate holding company belongs, and shall include the 
following information: 
 
(i) 
Organisational structure 
 
Chart illustrating the global organisational structure and ownership structure 
of the MNE group, and the geographical locations of all constituent entities.  
A constituent entity refers to any operating entity of the MNE group, including 
corporations, partnerships and permanent establishments, etc.  
 
(ii) 
Description of MNE’s business(es)  
 
a. A description of the MNE’s business, including important value drivers of 
business profit. 
 
b. A description of the supply chain and main geographic markets for the 
group’s five largest products or service offerings by turnover plus any 
other products or services amounting to more than 5 percent of group 
turnover. The required description could take the form of a chart or a 
diagram. 
 
c. A list and brief description of important service arrangements between 
constituent entities of the group, other than research and development 
services, including a description of the capabilities of the principal 
locations providing important services and transfer pricing policies for 
allocating service costs and determining prices to be paid for intra-group 
services.  
 

6 
 
d. A functional analysis describing the principal contributions to value 
creation by individual constituent entities within the group, i.e. key 
functions performed, important risks assumed, and important assets 
used. 
 
e. A description of business restructurings, industrial restructurings, 
transfers of functions, risks or assets occurring within the group during 
the fiscal year.    
 
f. A description of reorganizations occurring during the fiscal year within the 
group, i.e. Changes of legal form, debt restructuring, equity acquisition, 
asset acquisitions, merger and divestitures. 
 
 
(iii) Intangibles 
 
a. A general description of the MNE’s overall strategy for the development, 
ownership and exploitation of intangibles, including location of principal 
research and development facilities, location of research and 
development management,  and their functions, risks, assets and 
personnel.   
 
b. A list of intangibles or groups of intangibles of the MNE group that are 
important for transfer pricing purposes and which entities own them. 
 
c. A list of important agreements entered between constituent entities and 
their related parties related to intangibles, including cost sharing 
agreements, principal research services agreements and licence 
agreements. 
 
d. A description of the groups’ transfer pricing policies related to research 
and development and intangibles.   
 
e. A description of any important transfers of interests in intangibles among 
related parties during the fiscal year concerned, including the entities, 
countries, and compensations involved.   
 
(iv) Financial activities 
 
a. A description of financing arrangements between related entities within 
the group and important financing arrangements with unrelated parties.  
 
b. The identification of any constituent entities of the MNE group that 
provides a central financing function for the group, including the country 
under whose laws the entity is organised and the place of effective 
management of such entities.  
 
c. A description of the MNE’s general transfer pricing policies related to 
financing arrangements between related entities.  
 
(v) Financial and tax positions 
 
a. The MNE’s annual consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year 
concerned. 

7 
 
 
b. A list of the MNE group’s existing unilateral advance pricing agreements, 
bilateral advance pricing agreements and other tax rulings relating to the 
allocation of income among countries.  
 
c. Name 
and 
location 
of 
the 
constituent 
entity 
that 
files 
the 
Country-by-Country Report for the MNE group.  
 
13. Any enterprise that meets one of the following criteria during the fiscal year shall 
prepare a local file: 
 
(i) 
The annual related party transfer of ownership of tangible assets exceeds 
200 million RMB (for toll manufacturing transaction, the amount is calculated 
using the import/export customs declaration prices).  
 
(ii) 
The annual related party transfer of financial assets exceeds100 million 
RMB. 
 
(iii) The annual related party transfer of ownership of intangibles exceeds 100 
million RMB. 
 
(iv) The annual total amount of other related party transactions exceeds 40 
million RMB.  
 
14. Local file is to disclose detailed information on the enterprise’s related party 
transactions, including the following: 
 
(i) 
Overview of the enterprise 
 
a. 
Organisational structure, including the setup, scope of responsibility and 
number of employees of each functional department of the enterprise. 
 
b. 
Management structure, including the parties to which each level of the 
management reports, and the locations in which such parties maintain 
their principal offices, etc. 
 
c. 
Industry description, including an overview of the industry in which the 
enterprise operates and its development, other major economic and 
legal factors affecting the industry, such as industry policies, trade 
restrictions, as well as key competitors. 
 
d. 
Business strategies, including the workflow, operational model and 
factors that contribute to value creation, etc., of each department and 
each operational stage of the enterprise. 
 
e. 
Financial data, including turnover, costs, expenses and profits for the 
different types of business and product offerings of the enterprise. 
 
f. 
A description of business restructurings or intangibles transfers in which 
the enterprise has been involved in or affected by and an explanation of 
those aspects of such transactions affect the enterprise. 
 
(ii) 
Related party relationship 

8 
 
 
a. Information on related parties including the name, legal representatives, 
composition of senior management, address of actual operation of any 
related party (enterprise) that directly or indirectly own shares of the 
enterprise and with which the enterprise has entered into transactions, as 
well as the name, nationality and country of residence of any related 
party (individual). 
 
b. Information on taxes of income tax nature to which the enterprise is 
subject, with details including types of the taxes, tax rates and applicable 
preferential tax treatments.   
 
c. Information on changes in related party relationship of the enterprise 
during the fiscal year concerned. 
 
(iii) Related party transactions 
 
a. Overview of related party transactions 
 
(1) A description of related party transactions with details, including 
copies of contracts or agreements relating to the related party 
transactions and their execution, characteristics of the underlying 
targets, and categories, parties involved, timing, transaction value, 
settlement currency, contractual terms and conditions, trading 
models of the related party transactions as well as an explanation of 
how they are similar to or different from that of unrelated party 
transactions. 
 
(2) Transactional flow of the related party transactions, including the 
flows of information, goods and materials, and capitals, as well as an 
explanation of how they are similar to or different from that of 
unrelated party transactions. 
 
(3) A description of functions and risks, including the functions performed, 
risks assumed and assets used by the enterprise and its related 
parties for each category of related party transactions. 
 
(4) Key factors affecting the pricing of related party transactions, 
including intangibles involved in the transactions and their impact on 
pricing, as well as location specific factors such as cost savings and 
market premium etc.  Analysis on location specific factors shall 
focus on aspects such as labour costs, environmental costs, market 
size, degree of market competition, consumer purchasing power, 
substitutability of goods or services, and regulatory controls, etc.  
 
(5) Financial information on related party transactions, including the 
amount involved for each related party and each category of related 
party transactions; segmented data on turnover, costs, expenses and 
profits of related party transactions and unrelated party transactions; 
for items that could not be directly segmented and therefore have 
been allocated using appropriate allocation keys, information on how 
they are allocated and an explanation of how the allocation keys have 
been selected. 
 

9 
 
 
b. Value chain analysis 
 
(1) Flows of business, goods and materials, and capitals within the group, 
including design, development, manufacturing, marketing, sales, 
delivery, billing and payment, consumption, after-sale service, 
recycling, other processes related to goods, services or other 
relevant underlying targets of the related party transactions and all 
the parties involved.  
 
(2) Annual financial statements of each of the aforementioned parties for 
the immediately preceding fiscal year.  
 
(3) Measurement and attribution of value creation contributed by location 
specific factors. 
 
(4) Allocation policies and actual allocation results of the group’s profits 
in the global value chain. 
 
c. Outbound investment 
 
(1) Information on outbound investment, including the locations, 
amounts, main businesses and strategic plans of the investment 
projects.  
 
(2) An overview of outbound investment projects, including shareholding 
structure and organisational structure of the investment projects, 
employment of senior management involved in the investment 
projects, decision making process and the parties with final decision 
making authority about the investment projects.   
 
(3) Data of outbound investment projects, including operational data. 
 
d. Related party equity transfer 
 
(1) An overview of related party equity transfer, including background, 
parties involved, timing, pricing, payment method of the transfer, as 
well as other factors affecting the transfer.  
 
(2) Information on the equity transferred, including information like the 
equity’s geographic location, timing of the transfer, methodology of 
the transfer, cost of the transfer, income generated from the transfer, 
etc.  
 
(3) Due diligence report or asset valuation report or any other information 
pertaining to the equity transfer. 
 
e. Related party services  
 
(1) An overview of related party services, including service providers and 
recipients, nature of services, characteristics, method of service 
delivery, pricing policies and methods, form of payments, and 
benefits received by each party in relation to the services provided, 
etc. 
 

10 
 
(2) Methodology for determining the service costs, service items, service 
amount, allocation keys, calculation process and results.  
 
(3) Where the enterprise and its group are involved in transactions of the 
same or similar nature with an unrelated party, the enterprise shall 
describe in detail how the transactions are similar to or different from 
related party transactions in pricing policies and results. 
 
f. 
Existing advance pricing agreements and other tax rulings to which the 
PRC is not a party and which are related to the enterprise’s related party 
transactions.  
 
(iv) Comparability analysis 
 
a. Factors 
considered 
in 
the 
comparability 
analysis, 
including 
characteristics of the goods or services involved in the transactions, 
functions performed, risks assumed and assets used by each party 
involved, contractual terms, economic environment, business strategies, 
etc. 
 
b. Information related to the functions performed, risks assumed, and 
assets used by the comparable companies. 
 
c. Search process for comparables, data source, selection criteria and 
rationale for setting the criteria. 
 
d. Information of selected internal or external comparable uncontrolled 
transactions and financial information of comparable companies.  
 
e. Comparability adjustments and rationale for the adjustments. 
 
(v) Selection and application of transfer pricing method 
 
a. Selection of tested party and rationale for the selection. 
 
b. Selection of transfer pricing method and rationale for the selection.  
Regardless of the transfer pricing method selected, description of the 
contribution of the enterprise to the group’s overall profit or residual profit 
is required.  
 
c. Assumptions and judgment made in the process of determining arm’s 
length prices or profits. 
 
d. Application of reasonable transfer pricing method and result from 
comparability analysis to determine the arm’s length prices or profits.  
 
e. Other information supporting the selection of transfer pricing method. 
 
f. 
Analysis and conclusion of whether the transfer pricing for the related 
party transactions complis with the arm’s length principle. 
 
15. Special issue files include special issue file on cost sharing agreements and 
special issue file on thin capitalisation.  
 

11 
 
An enterprise that enters into or implements a cost sharing agreement (hereafter 
referred to as “CSA”) shall prepare a special issue file for the CSA. 
 
An enterprise with a related party debt-to-equity ratio exceeding the threshold 
shall prepare a special issue file on thin capitalisation to demonstrate its 
conformity with the arm’s length principle.  
 
16. Special issue file on CSAs shall include the following information: 
 
(i) A copy of the CSA. 
 
(ii) Other agreements reached by the CSA participants to facilitate the 
implementation of the CSA. 
 
(iii) Use of outcomes of the CSA by non-participants, amount paid and form of 
payment, as well as the allocation method for sharing the payment among 
the participants. 
 
(iv) Information on any participants entering in or withdrawing from the CSA 
during the fiscal year concerned, including the names of the participants, 
their countries of residence and related party relationships, and the amount 
and form of payment for the buy-in or buy-out compensations. 
 
(v) Description of amendments to or termination of the CSA, including the 
reasons for the amendments or termination, and the treatment or allocation 
of the existing CSA outcomes. 
 
(vi) Total cost from the CSA and its breakdown during the fiscal year concerned. 
 
(vii) Cost sharing among the CSA participants during the fiscal year concerned, 
including the amount, form of payment and which parities the allocated costs 
are paid to; and the amount, form of payment, and which parties the 
balancing payments are paid to or received from. 
 
(viii) A comparison of expected benefits and actual benefits from the CSA, and the 
balancing adjustments made. 
 
(ix) Calculation of expected benefits, including the selection of parameters, 
calculation method and reasons for any changes to them. 
 
17. Special issue file on thin capitalisation shall include the following information: 
 
(i) Analysis of the enterprise’s solvency and borrowing ability.  
 
(ii) Analysis of the borrowing ability and financing structure of the group to which 
the enterprise belong.  
 
(iii) A description of changes in equity investment of the enterprise, such as 
changes in registered capital, etc. 
 
(iv) Nature and purposes of the related party debt investment, and the market 
conditions at the time the debt investment was obtained.  

12 
 
 
(v) Currency, amount, interest rate, term and financing terms of the related party 
debt investment.  
 
(vi) Whether an unrelated party is capable and willing to accept the 
aforementioned financing terms, amount and interest rate.    
 
(vii) Collaterals provided by the enterprise in order to obtain the debt investment 
and the relevant terms.  
 
(viii) Details of the guarantor and the terms of guarantee.  
 
(ix) Interest rates and financing terms of similar loans occurring during the same 
period of time.  
 
(x) Terms of conversion of convertible bonds.  
 
(xi) Other information that can demonstrate the enterprise’s conformity with the 
arm’s length principle. 
 
18. Enterprises with effective advance pricing agreements in place may choose not 
to prepare local file and special issue file with respect to the related party 
transactions covered by such advance pricing agreements, and the amount of 
these related party transactions is excluded from the calculation of the thresholds 
stipulated in Articles 13 of this Public Notice. 
 
Enterprises with only domestic related party transactions may choose not to 
prepare master file, local file and special issue file. 
 
19. A master file shall be completed within 12 months of the fiscal year end of the 
ultimate holding company of the enterprise group; local file and special issue file 
shall be completed by 30 June of the year following the year during which the 
related party transactions occur. Contemporaneous documentation shall be 
submitted within 30 days after receiving a request from the tax administrations. 
 
20. Enterprises that fail to submit contemporaneous documentation due to an event 
of force majeure shall submit the contemporaneous documentation within 30 
days after the event of force majeure ceases to prevent the submission. 
 
21. Contemporaneous documentation shall be prepared in Chinese. The source of 
information used should be specified. 
 
22. Contemporaneous documentation shall be sealed with the enterprise’sl company 
chop, and signed and sealed by the legal representative or the representative 
authorised by the legal representative of the enterprise.   
 
23. In the event of a merger or divestiture, the relevant contemporaneous 
documentation shall be kept by the surviving enterprise after the merger or 
divestiture. 

13 
 
 
24. Contemporaneous documentation shall be kept for 10 years from the completion 
date of the preparation as required by the tax administrations. 
 
25. For enterprises that file related party transactions, submit contemporaneous 
documentation and other relevant information in accordance with relevant 
provisions, when additional tax is imposed by the tax administrations during the 
special tax investigation, an interest can be levied based on the People’s Bank of 
China central base lending rates for the same period to which the tax payment is 
related, in accordance with the provisions under Article 122 of the implementation 
regulations of the Enterprise Income Tax Law.  
 
26. This Public Notice also applies to transactions with related parties in Hong Kong, 
Macau and Taiwan. 
 
27. This Public Notice shall become effective from 2016 and onwards.  Chapter 2, 
Chapter 3, Article 74 and Article 89 of the “Implementation Measures of Special 
Tax Adjustments (Trial Version)” (Guo Shui Fa [2009] No.2), the “People’s 
Republic of China Enterprise Annual Reporting Forms for Related-Party 
Transactions” (released with Guo Shui Fa [2008] No.114) shall be annulled as of 
the same date.   
 
Appendix:  
(1) People’s Republic of China Enterprise Annual Reporting Forms for Related-Party 
Transactions (2016 version) 
(2) Filing Instructions to “People’s Republic of China Enterprise Annual Reporting 
Forms for Related-Party Transactions (2016 version)” 
 
 
State Administration of Taxation 
29 June 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
