×
2026 Customer Service Survey
In our continuous effort to enhance service quality, the Companies Registry (the “Registry”) is conducting a Customer Service Survey to collect customers’ feedback on our performance in respect of our pledged services.
We highly value your opinion and cordially invite you to complete the online survey form
on or before 9 October 2026
by clicking the link below.
Customer Service Survey 2026
All information collected in this survey will be kept strictly confidential and will be destroyed upon completion of the survey. A summary of the results of the survey will be published on the Registry’s website (
www.cr.gov.hk
).
We look forward to receiving your valuable feedback.
Skip to main content
Frequently Asked Questions
The detail of this page
Collapse all
Expand all
1
What are the objectives for introducing the Companies (Amendment) (No.2) Ordinance 2025 (the “Amendment Ordinance”)?
The Amendment Ordinance aims to introduce a company re-domiciliation regime that enables non-Hong Kong corporations to re-domicile to Hong Kong. In light of the introduction of the company re-domiciliation regime, the Amendment Ordinance also introduces related amendments to other enactments.
2
When will the Amendment Ordinance come into operation?
The Amendment Ordinance will come into operation on 23 May 2025.
3
What are the major features of the company re-domiciliation regime?
The major features of the company re-domiciliation regime include:
(a) the re-domiciliation regime is an inward regime which allows non-Hong Kong corporations to re-domicile to Hong Kong but not the other way round;
(b)
the re-domiciliation regime is applicable to non-Hong Kong corporations comparable to four types of companies that could be formed in Hong Kong, namely, (a) private companies limited by shares; (b) public companies limited by shares; (c) public unlimited companies with a share capital and (d) private unlimited companies with a share capital;
(c) re-domiciliation does not have the effect of creating a new legal entity and will not affect the business continuity of the company, or any property, rights, obligations, liabilities, as well as the contractual and legal processes of the company;
(d) there is no economic substance test imposed on the non-Hong Kong corporations intending to re-domicile to Hong Kong; and
(e) once re-domiciled, re-domiciled companies will be regarded as companies incorporated in Hong Kong with effect from the date of re-domiciliation and will be required to comply with all the relevant requirements under the Companies Ordinance (Cap. 622).
4
What is the effect of company re-domiciliation?
Once re-domiciled, a re-domiciled company will be regarded as a company incorporated in Hong Kong and will be required to comply with all the relevant requirements under the Companies Ordinance (the “CO”) in the same manner as a company formed and registered under the CO unless otherwise specified.
If the re-domiciled company has previously been registered as a registered non-Hong Kong company under Part 16 of the CO, its registration under Part 16 ceases to have effect on the date of issuance of its certificate of re-domiciliation.
5
If a non-Hong Kong company has, after its incorporation in Jurisdiction A, transferred its domicile to another jurisdiction (“Jurisdiction B”), does the requirement that the first financial year of the non-Hong Kong company has passed apply to the non-Hong Kong company for its re-domiciliation application?
Section 2(2)(m) of Schedule 6C to the Companies Ordinance (Cap. 622) (the “CO”) requires a certificate issued by the board of directors of the applicant to the effect that the first financial year of the applicant at the place of incorporation ends on or before the application date of re-domiciliation.
According to section 820A of the CO, “place of incorporation” in relation to a body corporate, means—
(a) the jurisdiction outside Hong Kong in which the body corporate is incorporated and under the law of which it is registered as at the application date; or
(b) if the body corporate has, after its incorporation, transferred its domicile to a jurisdiction outside Hong Kong, and is registered as a company under the law of that jurisdiction as at the application date—that jurisdiction.
Therefore, the non-Hong Kong company can only apply for re-domiciliation to Hong Kong on or after the end of its first financial year at Jurisdiction B.
For the avoidance of doubt, subject to the laws of Jurisdiction B and the constitutional documents of the non-Hong Kong company, the first financial year of the non-Hong Kong company needs not necessarily be a full calendar year.
6
Will the Companies Registry provide one-stop service so that the applicant can apply for business registration certificate at the same time of its submission of application for re-domiciliation?
Similar to the service provided for an application for incorporation of a local company, a “one-stop approach” will be provided for application for re-domiciliation of companies and business registration.
If a non-Hong Kong corporation which does not have a business registration applies for re-domiciliation, all documents and fees in respect of the application for re-domiciliation and business registration as required by the Registrar of Companies and the Commissioner of Inland Revenue respectively should be delivered to the Companies Registry. Upon registration, a Certificate of Re-domiciliation and a Business Registration Certificate will be issued in one go.
If a registered non-Hong Kong company under Part 16 of the Companies Ordinance (Cap. 622) holding a valid Business Registration Certificate applies for re-domiciliation, the business registration number of the registered non-Hong Kong company should be provided in the re-domiciliation form and there will be no need for application for a new Business Registration Certificate and no new Business Registration Certificate will be issued.
7
How long will an application for re-domiciliation be processed and approved approximately?
The time required for processing an application for re-domiciliation will depend on the quality and quantity of application documents received by the Companies Registry.
If documents and particulars required for the re-domiciliation application are in order, it is generally estimated that the applicant may be registered as a re-domiciled company in 2 weeks’ time.
8
Can a registered non-Hong Kong company under Part 16 of the Companies Ordinance apply for re-domiciliation using its existing name in the Companies Register as the proposed name of the re-domiciled company?
The restrictions and requirements under the Companies Ordinance (Cap. 622) (the “CO”), including sections 100 and 102 (regarding restrictions as to names of companies)are applicable to a re-domiciled company.
Section 100(1)(a) of the CO provides that a company must not be registered by a name that is the same as a name appearing in the Index of Company Names. This provision, however, does not apply if (i) the registration by the name is for the purpose of Part 17A of the CO (Re-domiciled companies) (the “registration”); (ii) the company was a registered non-Hong Kong company immediately before the registration; and (iii) the name concerned was the corporate name or approved name of the company immediately before the registration.
(see section 100(1A) of the Companies Ordinance (Cap. 622)).
In addition, section 100(1)(b) of the CO provides that a company must not be registered by a name that is the same as a name of a body corporate incorporated or established under an Ordinance.
9
If a registered non-Hong Kong company holding a valid Business Registration Certificate is applying for re-domiciliation and intends to adopt a different name as its company name upon re-domiciliation, will the Business Registration Office of the Inland Revenue Department (the “Business Registration Office”) automatically issue an amended Business Registration Certificate to the company upon its registration as a re-domiciled company?
Upon registration as a re-domiciled company, the Companies Registry will transmit, among others, the new company name of the re-domiciled company to the Business Registration Office. The Business Registration Office will then automatically issue an amended Business Registration Certificate and amended Branch Registration Certificate(s), if applicable, to the re-domiciled company in its new company name.
10
Can the proposed name of an intended re-domiciled company be the same as a name of an existing local company on the Companies Register?
No. The proposed name of an intended re-domiciled company is subject to the restrictions and requirements on company names under the Companies Ordinance (Cap. 622) (the “CO”), including sections 100 and 102.
Section 100(1)(a) of the CO provides that a company must not be registered by a name that is the same as a name appearing in the Index of Company Names.
Therefore, if the proposed name of an intended re-domiciled company is the same as a name of an existing
local company
appearing in the Index of Company Names, it will not be accepted for registration.
11
If the name of an applicant is neither in English nor Chinese, can it be adopted as the proposed name of the intended re-domiciled company?
A re-domiciled company may be registered with an English name, a Chinese name, or an English name and a Chinese name. A proposed name which is neither in English nor Chinese is not acceptable for registration. A company name with a combination of English words/letters and Chinese characters is also not allowed. If the company is a limited company, its English company name must end with the word “Limited” and its Chinese company name must end with the characters “有限公司”.
If the proposed name of the intended re-domiciled company is different from the name of the applicant, the proposed name has to be duly approved by the members of the applicant to be adopted as the name of the intended re-domiciled company and the applicant should ensure that the change of the name to the proposed name would not affect its deregistration in its place of incorporation.
12
Is it necessary for the proposed articles of association of an intended re-domiciled company to be delivered for registration to contain information of the founder members of the company?
The mandatory articles that are applicable to re-domiciled companies are set out in sections 81, 83 and 84 of the Companies Ordinance (Cap. 622) (the “CO”). Section 85(1) of the CO is not applicable to re-domiciled companies. Hence, the information of founder members is not required to be contained in the proposed articles of association of an intended re-domiciled company.
The Companies Registry has prepared the following three sample articles of association that are applicable to re-domiciled companies for reference. The samples are also available at the e-Services Portal.
Sample A (simplified form of articles of association for a private company that is a re-domiciled company)
Sample B (model articles of association for a private company that is a re-domiciled company)
Sample C (model articles of association for a public company that is a re-domiciled company)
13
Section 2(2)(h) of Schedule 6C to the Companies Ordinance (Cap. 622) (the “CO”) provides that a re-domiciliation form is to be accompanied by a certificate issued by the board of directors of the applicant within 35 days before the application date and signed by a director of the applicant (the “Certificate”) to the effect that, among others, the applicant has served on all its creditors notice of the applicant’s proposal to become a re-domiciled company.
Is there any prescribed form for giving such notice? Is it permissible if the applicant serves such notice by publication of a notice in the gazette and in local newspapers in its place of incorporation? Is there any definition for the term “creditors”?
An application for re-domiciliation should not be made to defraud existing creditors of the applicant. Hence, it is a requirement to submit the Certificate, together with the re-domiciliation form for a re-domiciliation application. The board of directors of the applicant should confirm by way of the Certificate that, among others, notice of the applicant’s proposal to become a re-domiciled company has been served on all creditors.
It is the policy intent for the applicant to proactively notify its creditors of its proposal to become a re-domiciled company prior to the submission of its re-domiciliation application. Hence, publication of notice in the gazette or local newspapers in its place of incorporation could not serve the same purpose.
There is no restriction on the format, content and mode of dissemination of the said notice.
The term “creditor” is not defined in the CO and should therefore bear its natural and ordinary meaning.
14
If an applicant's shares have a par value, how should the par value and share premium be treated upon re-domiciliation to Hong Kong?
Hong Kong adopts a “no-par” regime for shares. If an applicant's shares have a par value, the full proceeds of a share issue will be credited to share capital under the “no-par” regime for shares and becomes the company's share capital. The notion of issued or paid capital will continue to be relevant and it would then also reflect the amount in the share premium account.
15
What will the application fee be? Is the fee refundable if the applicant withdraws its application or if the application is unsuccessful?
Fees payable for registration under section 820C of the Companies Ordinance (Cap. 622) (the “CO”) as a company having a share capital is $6,725 for paper application or $6,050 for electronic application.
The fees payable is made up of two parts, i.e. a registration fee for registration under section 820C of the CO ($5,580 for paper application; $5,020 for electronic application) and a lodgement fee of a re-domiciliation form under section 820B of the CO ($1,145 for paper application; $1,030 for electronic application).
Registration fee is refundable while lodgement fee is non-refundable if the application is withdrawn or unsuccessful.
16
What actions must a re-domiciled company take regarding its registration in its place of incorporation after obtaining the Certificate of Re-domiciliation?
After the date on which the Certificate of Re-domiciliation is issued, the re-domiciled company must take all reasonable steps to procure its deregistration in its place of incorporation as soon as practicable.
Within 120 days after the re-domiciliation date, the re-domiciled company must be deregistered in its place of incorporation and submit to the Registrar of Companies (the “Registrar”) a document evidencing the deregistration to the satisfaction of the Registrar.
(see section 820E(2) and (3) of the Companies Ordinance (Cap. 622)).
17
What should a re-domiciled company do if it fails to submit evidence of deregistration in its place of incorporation within the prescribed time of 120 days?
The re-domiciled company may apply to the Registrar of Companies (the “Registrar”) to have the 120-day period extended subject to any condition that the Registrar considers appropriate.
(see section 820E(5) of the Companies Ordinance (Cap. 622)).
18
What will be the consequences if the re-domiciled company fails to comply with the requirement to submit evidence of deregistration in its place of incorporation within 120 days or the extended period as specified by the Registrar of Companies?
If the re-domiciled company fails to comply with the requirement to submit evidence of deregistration in its place of incorporation within 120 days or the extended period as specified by the Registrar of Companies (the “Registrar”), the Registrar may by order revoke the registration of the re-domiciled company under the Companies Ordinance (Cap. 622).
The revocation order takes effect on the date on which a copy of the revocation order is published in the Gazette.
(see section 820F of the Companies Ordinance (Cap. 622)).
19
If a re-domiciled company has, on the re-domiciliation date, a charge created by the company before that date, is it required to register the charge after the re-domiciliation?
If a re-domiciled company has created a charge before the re-domiciliation date, and the charge subsists on the re-domiciliation date and is of a kind that a statement of its particulars would have been required by section 335 of the Companies Ordinance (Cap. 622) to be delivered for registration had the charge been created by the re-domiciled company on or after that date, the re-domiciled company must deliver a statement of particulars of the charge to the Registrar of Companies for registration within one month after the re-domiciliation date.
If the re-domiciled company was a registered non-Hong Kong company under Part 16 of the Companies Ordinance before the re-domiciliation date, and it has registered the charge under the Companies Ordinance, then it is not required to register the charge again.
(see section 338A(1) and (3) of the Companies Ordinance (Cap. 622)).
20
If a re-domiciled company acquired any property in Hong Kong or elsewhere that was subject to a charge before the re-domiciliation date, is it required to register the charge after re-domiciliation?
If a re-domiciled company acquired any property in Hong Kong or elsewhere which was subject to a charge before the re-domiciliation date, and the charge subsists on the re-domiciliation date and is of a kind that a statement of its particulars would have been required by section 338 of the Companies Ordinance (Cap. 622) to be delivered for registration had the property been acquired by the re-domiciled company on or after that date, the re-domiciled company must deliver a statement of particulars of the charge to the Registrar of Companies for registration within one month after the re-domiciliation date.
If the re-domiciled company was a registered non-Hong Kong company under Part 16 of the Companies Ordinance before the re-domiciliation date, and it has registered the charge under the Companies Ordinance, then it is not required to register the charge again.
(see section 338A(2) and (3) of the Companies Ordinance (Cap. 622)).
21
If a re-domiciled company was a registered non-Hong Kong company under Part 16 of the Companies Ordinance (Cap. 622) before the re-domiciliation and had yet to comply with certain requirements under the Companies Ordinance immediately before the re-domiciliation, is the re-domiciled company required to continue to comply with the relevant requirements?
Relevant amendments have been made to the Companies Ordinance (Cap. 622), which clearly stipulates that despite the re-domiciliation, the re-domiciled company shall continue to comply with the relevant requirements as if the re-domiciliation had not taken place and the company were still a registered non-Hong Kong company.
22
How can I know if a company is a re-domiciled company from inspecting the Companies Register?
Upon the registration of a non-Hong Kong corporation as a re-domiciled company, the re-domiciliation form and the proposed articles of the company as well as the certificate issued by the Registrar of Companies certifying that the re-domiciled company is registered under section 820C of the Companies Ordinance (Cap. 622) as a limited company or an unlimited company (as the case requires) will be made available for public inspection in the Companies Register.
Besides, for a re-domiciled company, the re-domiciliation date will be displayed in its basic company particulars in the Companies Register.
23
How can I know if a re-domiciled company has been deregistered from its place of incorporation within 120 days after the re-domiciliation date as required by the Companies Ordinance (Cap. 622)?
In the Companies Register, in addition to the re-domiciliation date of a re-domiciled company, the company's basic information will also include an item showing the "Date of Submission of Document Evidencing Deregistration in Place of Incorporation to the Registrar of Companies". If no information is displayed under this item, it means that the re-domiciled company has not yet complied with the deregistration requirement.
24
How can I know if the Registrar of Companies intends to by order revoke the registration of a re-domiciled company?
If the Registrar of Companies (the “Registrar”) intends to by order revoke the registration of a re-domiciled company, an Information Sheet on the intention of the Registrar will be placed in the company's document index and an “Important Note” will be added in its company particulars for alerting the public of the Registrar’s intention to revoke the registration.
25
How can I know if the Registrar of Companies decides to cease the revocation of registration of a re-domiciled company?
If the intention of the Registrar of Companies (the “Registrar”) to revoke the registration of a re-domiciled company ceases after consideration of the representation of the company, an Information Sheet will be placed in the document index. The information in the “Important Note” of the company particulars of the company about the Registrar’s intention to revoke the registration will also be removed.
26
How can I know if the Registrar of Companies has ordered the revocation of registration of a re-domiciled company?
If the Registrar of Companies orders the revocation of the registration of a re-domiciled company, a copy of the notice of the revocation order will be published in the Gazette. The “Revocation Order” will also be placed in the document index for public inspection on the same day. In the Company Particulars of the company, the date of revocation of registration will be displayed and the company status will be updated to “Registration of Re-domiciled Company Revoked”.
27
If a re-domiciled company was a registered non-Hong Kong company under Part 16 of the Companies Ordinance (Cap. 622) before re-domiciliation, will the public continue to be able to inspect the image records of the then registered non-Hong Kong company in the Companies Register?
Yes. Since the re-domiciled company and the then registered non-Hong Kong company are actually the same legal entity and have the same business registration number, registered documents of the then registered non-Hong Kong company before the re-domiciliation will still be shown in the document index of the re-domiciled company.
28
What are the filing obligations for a re-domiciled company immediately after its re-domiciliation?
Within 15 days after the re-domiciliation date, the re-domiciled company concerned must deliver to the Registrar of Companies (the “Registrar”) for registration a return in the specified form (Form NSC21) to report the statement of capital of the company as at the re-domiciliation date.
The return:
(a) must include a statement of share capital, as at the re-domiciliation date, that complies with section 201 of the Companies Ordinance (Cap. 622); and
(b) must state the following particulars relating to the members of the re-domiciled company —
(i) if the company is not a listed company —
(A) the number of issued shares held by each member of the company in relation to each class of shares as at the re-domiciliation date;
(B) the name and address of each member; and
(ii) if the company is a listed company —
(A) the number of issued shares held by each specified member of the company in relation to each class of shares as at the re-domiciliation date;
(B) the percentage of issued shares held by each specified member of the company in relation to each class of shares as at that date;
(C) the name and address of each specified member of the company.
A reference to a specified member of a re-domiciled company is, in relation to a class of shares, a reference to a member of the company who holds at least 5% of the issued shares in that class.
Within 120 days after the re-domiciliation date, the re-domiciled company must submit to the Registrar a document evidencing its deregistration in its place of incorporation to the satisfaction of the Registrar.
If a person, who is to be a director of the intended re-domiciled company, has not signed on the part “Consent to be a Director” in the Re-domiciliation Form, a statement of consent to be a director of the intended re-domiciled company on its registration must be delivered in the specified form, Form NNC3RD – Consent to be a Director (Re-domiciled Company) to the Registrar for registration within 15 days after re-domiciliation date.
Depending on the circumstances, the re-domiciled company may also be required to comply with some other filing obligations specifically imposed on re-domiciled companies. Please refer to Annex 4 of the
External Circular No. 4 / 2025
for details.
29
Can the registered office of a re-domiciled company be situated outside Hong Kong?
No. The registered office of a re-domiciled company must be situated in Hong Kong.
30
After re-domiciliation to Hong Kong, can a re-domiciled company further re-domicile to another jurisdiction?
The company re-domiciliation regime in Hong Kong is an inward regime which allows non-Hong Kong companies to re-domicile to Hong Kong but not the other way round.
31
What changes has the Companies Registry made to the form for Annual Return (Form NAR1) to facilitate the implementation of the company re-domiciliation regime?
To facilitate the implementation of the company re-domiciliation regime, the Registrar of Companies has revised Form NAR1 - Annual Return. Among others, the statement in respect of the status of the company as a private company in section 16 on page 8 of the form has been revised to cover the situation of a private company which is a re-domiciled company. The notes for completion have also been updated to explain the date to which an annual return is made up for a re-domiciled company.
32
Are there any transitional arrangements for the delivery of Form NAR1 - Annual Return to the Companies Registry?
You are recommended to deliver for registration the annual return using the most up-to-date version of the Form NAR1.
The Annual Return (Form NAR1) with
Specification No. 1/2023 (December 2023)
remains acceptable for registration
on or before
22 November 2026
, subject to any further extension on review. A re-domiciled company must adopt the new version of Form NAR1 (i.e. Specification No. 2/2025 (May 2025)). The Companies Registry will return an old version of the Form NAR1 if the company concerned is a re-domiciled company. Please refer to
Q.31
for the changes introduced to Form NAR1.
×
We are committed to ensuring that our website conforms to the World Wide Web Consortium (W3C) Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) 2.0 Level AA requirements to the maximum extent possible. However, as our website contains considerable multi-media contents, it is not possible to incorporate all Level AA accessibility requirements in all of them. Nonetheless, the multi-media contents are so located as not to affect the accessibility of significant contents in our website.
This webpage contains multi-media contents and may not fully comply with all Level AA accessibility requirements. If you need any information or assistance, please email us at
crenq@cr.gov.hk
or call our Customer Services and Management Division at (852)
2867 1541
.
Back To Top Button