本附註及說明的中文版樣本可經表格傳真服務（電話號碼 2598 6001）索取或在稅務局網頁（網址www.ird.gov.hk）下載。
A specimen of the Chinese version of this Notes and Instructions may be obtained through the Fax-A-Form service (Telephone No. 2598 6001) or 
	
downloaded from the Department's web site (www.ird.gov.hk).
NOTES AND INSTRUCTIONS —— FORM BIR51
A.	
PERSONAL INFORMATION COLLECTION STATEMENT
It is obligatory for you to supply the personal data as required by the return and any required supplementary forms. Breach of the statutory 
requirement may render you liable to penalty or other actions as provided under the Ordinances administered by the Department.  Moreover, 
if you fail to supply the required information, your application/request/notification will not be accepted for processing.  The Department will 
use the information provided by you for the purposes of the Ordinances administered by it and may disclose/transfer any or all of such 
information to any other parties provided that the disclosure/transfer is authorized or permitted by law.  Except where there is an exemption 
provided under the Personal Data (Privacy) Ordinance, you have the right to request access to and correction of your personal data.  You 
should send such request in writing to the Assessor at GPO Box 132, Hong Kong and quote your file number in this Department.
B.	
INTRODUCTION
(1)	
If after reading these notes you still have difficulty in completing the return, or if you require further information, please:-
 
l	 visit the Department’s web site (www.ird.gov.hk); or	
 
l	 write to or telephone the Assessor, Profits Tax, quoting your File Number. 
(2)	
The term “relevant year” refers to the particular year of assessment printed on page 1 of the return for final assessment.
(3)	
If your financial statements are prepared in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards or accounting standards as 
defined by section 357(1) of the Companies Ordinance (Cap. 622) (i.e. the accounting standards issued by the Hong Kong Institute of 
Certified Public Accountants including the Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standards, the Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standard for 
Private Entities and the Small and Medium-sized Entity Financial Reporting Standard), you must use such financial statements for 
determining your Profits Tax liability.
(4)	
The Assessable Profits shown in Part 1 of the return will be used to determine the amount of your Profits Tax liability for the relevant 
year and the amount of the Provisional Profits Tax payable for the year of assessment following the relevant year. Any Provisional 
Profits Tax charged for the relevant year will be allowed against the Profits Tax liability for that year.
(5)	
All amounts must be shown in HK dollars (excluding cents).  If your financial statements are prepared in a foreign currency, you should 
convert the amounts into HK dollars before filling in the items.  In the tax computation, you should state the conversion rate used.
C.	
NOTICE FOR COMPLETION OF RETURN UNDER SECTION 51(1) OF THE INLAND REVENUE ORDINANCE
NOTE C1	
ASSESSABLE PROFITS (OR ADJUSTED LOSS)
The Assessable Profits (or Adjusted Loss) are the net profits (or loss) [other than profits (or loss) arising from the sale of capital assets] for the 
basis period, arising in or derived from Hong Kong, calculated in accordance with the provisions of the Inland Revenue Ordinance (Cap. 112) (“the 
IRO“), from any trade, profession or business carried on in Hong Kong.  Any claim that profits are offshore (non-taxable) must be accompanied by a 
statement setting out the reasons for the claim.  These reasons should be capable of being substantiated by evidence, if requested.
NOTE C2	
BASIS PERIOD
The basis period is either:-
(1)	
the year ended 31 March during the relevant year; or
(2)	
where the annual accounts are made up to any day other than 31 March, the year ended on that day in the relevant year; or
(3)	
where the accounts are made up for each lunar year, the lunar year ended in the relevant year; or
(4)	
where a corporation commenced or ceased to carry on a business or changed its accounting date, the special period prescribed by 
section 18C, 18D or 18E of the IRO:-
(a)	
for commencement cases, if accounts for this period have not been prepared, the profits (or loss) to be returned may be 
calculated by apportioning the profits (or loss) shown by the accounts which cover the period; or
(b)	
for cessation / transfer of business cases, special rules apply:-
(i)	
where the business does not cease but, in whole or in part, is transferred to or carried on by another person; or
(ii)	
to a business which commenced before 1 April 1974.
NOTE C3	
ELECTRONIC FILING OF SUPPLEMENTARY FORMS TO PROFITS TAX RETURN (S1 to S22)
Starting from 1 April 2023, all required supplementary forms must be submitted electronically.  If you are required to file any aforesaid form, 
you must download the relevant form and fill in the form electronically.  After completion, you must export the filled form to XML file and 
upload the XML file via the electronic filing of Profits Tax Return services under GovHK for submission.  If your Profits Tax Return is to be 
submitted in paper form, you MUST print and sign a paper Control List (containing details of XML files uploaded and QR code) generated by 
the electronic filing of Profits Tax Return services for submission together with the paper Profits Tax Return.
NOTE C4	
SUBMISSION OF PROFITS TAX RETURN THROUGH ELECTRONIC FILING OR SEMI-ELECTRONIC FILING
You can submit Profits Tax Return - Corporations (BIR51) and the required Supporting Documents prescribed in the notice to file Profits Tax 
Return and supplementary forms (S1 to S22) in the form of electronic records via electronic filing of Profits Tax Return services under GovHK if 
the following criteria are met:-
(1)	
The return is for any year of assessment from 2022/23 to 2025/26;
(2)	
The Supporting Documents and supplementary form(s) (if applicable) have been prepared in specified electronic format; and
(3)	
The return is submitted by your secretary / manager / director / investment manager or by a service provider engaged by you to furnish 
the return.
The authorized signatory having a specified mode of signing can sign and submit the return online under the electronic filing mode.  Or he 
can print the simplified return generated by the electronic filing of Profits Tax Return services under the semi-electronic filing mode for 
signature and submission. For details of electronic filing and semi-electronic filing, please visit GovHK (www.gov.hk/business).
Starting from 1 April 2026, the first phase of mandatory electronic filing of Profits Tax Return has come into operation.  If you are a specified 
person under section 51AAB of and Schedule 65 to the IRO, you are mandated to submit Profits Tax Return - Corporations (BIR51) in the form 
of electronic records.  Semi-electronic filing is not acceptable.  See Items 3.9 & 3.9.1 in Part 3 of Section G for further details.
D.	
KEEPING BUSINESS RECORDS
The IRO requires each person carrying on a trade, profession, or business in Hong Kong to keep sufficient records of his income and expenditure 
and assets and liabilities in relation to that trade, profession or business to enable his assessable profits to be readily ascertained.  Such records 
should be retained for at least 7 years after the date of the transactions to which they relate, or until the corporation is dissolved, if this is sooner. 
Failure to keep sufficient records may result in a fine of up to $100,000.
E.	
OFFENCES AND PENALTIES
The IRO provides heavy penalties for any person who:-
(1)	
fails to comply with the requirements of a notice to make a return without reasonable excuse;
(2)	
makes an incorrect return without reasonable excuse;
(3)	
makes a false return wilfully with intent to evade tax;
(4)	
fails to keep sufficient business records of income and expenditure and assets and liabilities without reasonable excuse;
(5)	
fails to give notice of the cessation of a trade, profession or business without reasonable excuse;
(6)	
fails to notify a change of address without reasonable excuse; or 
(7)	
fails to notify a change of ownership of property in respect of which exemption from Property Tax has been granted.
EVASION OF TAX IS A CRIMINAL OFFENCE.  MAXIMUM PENALTY is a fine of $50,000 PLUS a further fine of 3 times the undercharged amount 
and imprisonment for 3 years.
A service provider engaged by a taxpayer to furnish a tax return for or on behalf of the taxpayer may commit an offence if the service 
provider, without reasonable excuse:-
(1)	
fails to furnish the return;
(2)	
fails to obtain and retain a confirmation from the taxpayer stating that the information contained in the return is correct and complete 
to the best of the taxpayer's knowledge and belief; or
(3)	
furnishes the return not in accordance with the information provided, or instructions given, by the taxpayer to the service provider and 
the return so furnished is incorrect in a material particular.
The above offence is subject to a fine of $10,000; and the court may order the service provider convicted to do within a specified time the act 
which the service provider has failed to do.
(4/2025)	
P.T.O.

Page 2
F.	
REMUNERATION PAID TO EMPLOYEES OR PERSONS OTHER THAN EMPLOYEES
If there are salaries, wages, commission and subcontracting fees charged to the accounts, these payments should also be reported under 
your Employer’s Return file reference with this Department. If you do not have a file reference, dial 187 8022 for assistance.
G.	
HOW TO COMPLETE THE RETURN
PART 1	
STATEMENT OF ASSESSABLE PROFITS OR ADJUSTED LOSS 
(1)	
The Assessable Profits or Adjusted Loss to be shown are before any loss brought forward from prior year.
(2)	
ADJUSTMENTS TO BE MADE:-
The profits or loss shown by the financial statements must be converted to the Assessable Profits or Adjusted Loss computed in 
accordance with Part 4 of the IRO. The adjustments include, but not limited to, the following items:-
To be added to the net profits or deducted from the loss:-
(a)	
expenses or outgoings to the extent to which they are not incurred in the production of profits in respect of which you are 
chargeable to Profits Tax, e.g. gifts, fines, penalties, gratuitous payments, interest on monies not specifically employed in the 
production of such profits, except that donations of not less than $100 in aggregate to charitable bodies which are exempt from 
tax under section 88 of the IRO or to the Government for charitable purposes, may be deducted, provided the deduction does not 
exceed 35% of the Assessable Profits before set off of losses;
(b)	
any expenditure of a capital nature e.g. the cost of plant, machinery, buildings, furniture, office equipment, etc. and 
improvements or extraordinary repairs;
(c)	
any depreciation written off;
(d)	
any loss or expense recoverable under an insurance or a contract of indemnity;
(e)	
taxes charged on you under the IRO;
(f)	
appropriations of profits or transfers to reserve;
(g)	
an ordinary / regular contribution to a fund established under a recognized retirement scheme to the extent that it exceeds 15% of 
the total emoluments of each employee concerned for the period in respect of which the payment is made;
(h)	
any part of the losses of a trade, profession or business carried on by another person who is chargeable to Hong Kong Profits Tax 
which is included in your financial statements;
(i)	
any loss arising in or derived from a trade, profession or business NOT carried on in Hong Kong;
(j)	
any balancing charge assessable under Part 6 of the IRO;
(k)	
any loss of a capital nature or any loss NOT arising in or derived from Hong Kong;
(l)	
any deemed assessable profits under section 20AE, 20AF, 20AX and/or 20AY of the IRO or section 22 and/or 23 of Schedule 16E to 
the IRO;  
(m)	
any loss from qualifying debt instruments as defined in section 14A(4) of the IRO and issued on or after 1 April 2018;
To be deducted from the net profits or added to the loss:-
(n)	
any part of the profits of a trade, profession or business carried on by another person who is chargeable to Hong Kong Profits Tax 
which is included in your financial statements;
(o)	
a profit arising in or derived from a trade, profession or business NOT carried on in Hong Kong;
(p)	
dividends received from a corporation;
(q)	
profits of a capital nature, gains or profits from disposal of qualifying equity interests or profits NOT arising in or derived from 
Hong Kong (except the specified foreign-sourced income which cannot be exempted from Profits Tax under the foreign-sourced 
income exemption regime);
(r)	
interest on Tax Reserve Certificates;
(s)	
the depreciation allowances permitted under Part 6 of the IRO;
(t)	
net interest income derived from deposits placed in Hong Kong with an authorized institution which is exempted from payment 
of Profits Tax under the Exemption from Profits Tax (Interest Income) Order;
(u)	
interest, profits or gains from qualifying debt instruments as defined in section 14A(4) of the IRO and issued on or after 1 April 2018.
(3)	
DOCUMENTS AND INFORMATION TO BE PREPARED AND SUBMITTED
(a)	
detailed Statement of Financial Position /Balance Sheet, Statement of Comprehensive Income/Profit and Loss Account, if the 
certified copy of the audited financial statements is an abridged version and does not provide sufficient details to enable the 
Assessable Profits to be readily ascertained;
(b)	
details of capital expenditure incurred, capital assets sold, depreciation charged to the financial statements and assets not in use 
at the end of the basis period (where capital assets have been acquired by hire purchase, details of the terms of the agreement for 
each asset must be submitted);
(c)	
details of expenditure incurred on, and proceeds from the disposal of any rights in or arising out of, research and development;
(d)	
details of expenditure incurred on refurbishment of a building (other than a domestic building), the location and how the building 
has been used during the year;
(e)	
details of expenditure incurred on, and proceeds from the sale of, environmental protection machinery, environment-friendly 
vehicles, and environmental protection installation, including any part of expenditure on environmental protection installation 
that remains to be deducted (and is to be fully deducted) in the year of assessment 2018/19;
(f)	
details of reserve and provision accounts, showing transfers to and from these accounts;
(g)	
details of any service / management fee received including full name and address of each payer, and where available, the Hong 
Kong Identity Card Number or Business Registration Number of each payer;
(h)	
details of interest paid or payable, including the name and address of the lender, his relationship with you, the purpose for which 
the loan was obtained, any security given to the lender and the specific condition under section 16(2) of the IRO which you rely on 
for the claim for deduction;
(i)	
details of profits / income / interest received and claimed to have an offshore source and the related direct and indirect expenses;
(j)	
details showing the name, address and Hong Kong Identity Card Number / Business Registration Number of each recipient, 
amount paid to each recipient and nature of service in respect of the following items:-
(i)	
contractors and subcontractors fees;
(ii)	
management fees;
(iii)	
commission;
(iv)	
legal and other professional fees;
(v)	
hire, rental or similar charges for the use or right to use movable property in Hong Kong;
(k)	
details of and reasons for bad debt provisions and write-offs, showing name and address of each debtor, and the respective amounts;
(l)	
details of any change in the method of valuation of opening or closing inventories or work-in-progress from that previously used 
(not applicable to the commencement of a trade, profession or business);
(m)	
(i)       details of rental payments in respect of each premises rented including full name and address of the landlord or recipient of
	
rent, the exact location and the rating assessment number (if available), the total rent paid and the period covered.  In case 
	
lease expenditures (i.e. interest on lease liability and depreciation on right-of-use asset charged in the profit and loss 
account), instead of contractual rental payments, are claimed for deduction, see also Item (ii) below;
P.T.O.

Page 3
(ii)	
details of lease expenditures (i.e. interest on lease liability and depreciation on right-of-use asset charged in the profit and 
loss account) in respect of each item / each class of leased assets and computation of impairment and / or revaluation 
adjustments (if any).  For profits tax treatment and assessing practice relating to lease expenditures, please refer to the 
	
related information on the Department's web site;
(n)	
other reconciliation statements and particulars of any unusual transactions which might affect the tax position;
(o)	
the following information relating to the cessation of business, if applicable:-
(i)	
for letting or sale of the business or any of its assets, the name and address of any transferee together with particulars of 
the terms of transfer;
(ii)	
full details of sums received or paid after cessation;
(iii)	
the names of the persons now occupying your former business premises and, if they are carrying on business, the nature of 
that business and the name under which it is carried on, if known;
(p)	
a computation of the deemed assessable profits together with the name and address of each non-resident person, special 
purpose vehicle, fund, special purpose entity, family-owned investment holding vehicle and family-owned special purpose entity, 
where applicable (See Notes Item 3.2 in Part 3);
(q)	
details of share-based payment in respect of stock option or share award obligations fulfilled by:-
(i)	
issuing new shares;
(ii)	
acquiring shares from the market;	
(iii)	
recharge arrangements between group companies.
	
For each category, state the amount involved and basis of computation. For (ii) & (iii), also state the amount in respect of option 
exercised / award vested during the basis period; and the amount of deduction previously allowed in respect of option / award 
subsequently forfeited or cancelled during the basis period (if any);
(r)	
details of deduction claimed for approved charitable donations, showing full name of each charitable institution or trust of a 
public character which is exempt from tax under section 88 of the IRO and the respective amount;
(s)	
for an open-ended fund company with sub-funds structure, a computation of the Assessable Profits or Adjusted Loss of each sub-fund;
(t)	
for the purposes of section 50AAK, a PE of a non-Hong Kong resident person should provide: 
(i)	
for each fund provided by the non-Hong Kong resident person to the PE, the amount of fund, nature, interest rate 
            and interest expense for the year of assessment; 
(ii)	
amount of free capital attributed to the PE and its computation; 	
(iii)	
amount of capital attribution tax adjustment and its computation. 
PART 2	
TAX LIABILITY OR REPAYMENT
Item 2.1 &	
TAX PAYABLE/TAX REPAYABLE
Item 2.2
State the amount of tax payable or repayable in Item 2.1 or 2.2 respectively. Your computation should take into account the amount of 
Provisional Profits Tax payable for the year of assessment following the relevant year and deduct any Provisional Profits Tax charged for the 
relevant year. If you have any loss brought forward, you can use it to set-off the Assessable Profits as stated in Part 1 of the return (if 
applicable) when computing the amount of tax payable or repayable.
Item 2.3	
CLAIM FOR PROFITS CHARGEABLE AT TWO-TIERED RATES
State whether you are chargeable at two-tiered rates in Item 2.3 (applicable to year of assessment 2018/19 and subsequent years). If you have 
no connected entity or no other connected entity elects to be so chargeable for the subject year, you are chargeable at two-tiered rates. For 
connected entities, the two-tiered rates will only be applicable to one of them. The entity electing for the two-tiered rates must complete Item 
9.1 and provide a complete list of connected entities carrying on a trade, profession or business in Hong Kong in supplementary form (S1) 
unless the entity is a member of a group of companies, one of which is listed on the Stock Exchange of Hong Kong. For details of the two-
tiered profits tax rates regime, please refer to the Department’s web site.
PART 3	
SPECIFIED TRANSACTIONS AND MATTERS
Item 3.1 	
PAYMENTS TO NON-RESIDENTS FOR THE USE/ASSIGNMENT OF INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY
You must submit, for each recipient, the name, identity (i.e. individual, partnership or corporation), amount, type of intellectual property and 
the IRD file number with which you submit the Profits Tax Return (BIR54) for the recipient in respect of sums paid or accrued to a non-resident person:-
(1)	
for the exhibition or use in Hong Kong of cinematograph or television film or tape, sound recording or their connected advertising material;
(2)	
for the use, or the right to the use, in  Hong Kong or outside Hong Kong when such sums are deductible in ascertaining your 
assessable profits, of any patent, design, trade mark, copyright material, *layout-design (topography) of an integrated circuit, 
*performer’s right, *plant variety right, secret process or formula;
*(3)	
for an assignment of, or agreement to assign, a performer’s right in relation to a performance given by the performer in Hong Kong on 
or after 29 June 2018 and the sums were paid or accrued to the performer or an organizer.
(*information is only required for sums paid or accrued on or after 29 June 2018.)
Item 3.2	
DEEMED ASSESSABLE PROFITS UNDER SECTION 20AE, 20AF, 20AX AND/OR 20AY OF THE INLAND REVENUE ORDINANCE  	
	
OR SECTION 22 AND/OR 23 OF SCHEDULE 16E TO THE INLAND REVENUE ORDINANCE
You must include the deemed assessable profits under section 20AE and/or 20AF or 20AX and/or 20AY of the IRO or section 22 and/or 23 of 
Schedule 16E to the IRO in your Assessable Profits or Adjusted Loss, as stated in Part 1, if:-
(a)	
a non-resident person's assessable profits are exempt from tax under section 20AC of the IRO, and during any part of the year the non-
resident person is your associate or you (alone or jointly with any of your associates) hold a beneficial interest of 30% or more in the 
non-resident person;
(b) 	
for year of assessment 2015/16 and subsequent years, the assessable profits of a special purpose vehicle, in which a non-resident 
person satisfying (a) above has a beneficial interest, are exempt from tax under section 20ACA of the IRO;
(c) 	
for year of assessment 2019/20 and subsequent years, the assessable profits of a fund falling within the meaning given by section 
20AM of the IRO are exempt from tax under section 20AN of the IRO, and during any part of the year the fund is your associate or you 
(alone or jointly with any of your associates) hold a beneficial interest of 30% or more in the fund;
(d) 	
for year of assessment 2019/20 and subsequent years, the assessable profits of a special purpose entity, in which a fund satisfying (c) 
above has a beneficial interest, are exempt from tax under section 20AO of the IRO;
(e)	
for year of assessment 2022/23 and subsequent years, the assessable profits of a family-owned investment holding vehicle are 
chargeable at concessionary tax rate under section 9 of Schedule 16E to the IRO, and during any period of time in the year the family-
owned investment holding vehicle is your associate or you (alone or jointly with any of your associates) hold a beneficial interest of 
30% or more in the family-owned investment holding vehicle; or
(f) 	
for year of assessment 2022/23 and subsequent years, the assessable profits of a family-owned special purpose entity, in which a 
family-owned investment holding vehicle satisfying (e) above has a beneficial interest, are chargeable at concessionary tax rate under 
section 16 of Schedule 16E to the IRO.
In addition, you are required to provide the following information:-
(1)	
name and address of each such non-resident person, special purpose vehicle, fund, special purpose entity, family-owned investment 	
	
holding vehicle and family-owned special purpose entity, where applicable; and
(2)	
a computation of the deemed assessable profits.
In calculating the deemed assessable profits, please refer to Schedule 15, 15A, 15C, 15D, 16J and/or 16K to the IRO and to the related 
information on the Department's web site.
P.T.O.

Page 4
Item 3.3	
SHORT TERM DEBT INSTRUMENTS AND MEDIUM TERM DEBT INSTRUMENTS (ISSUED BEFORE 1 APRIL 2018)
Profits/loss from short/medium term debt instruments (issued before 1 April 2018) are assessable under section 14A of the IRO at 
concessionary tax rate equivalent to one-half of the profits tax rate and they must be included in the Assessable Profits or Adjusted Loss as 
stated in Part 1:-
(1)	
“Short term debt instrument” and “medium term debt instrument” are defined in section 14A(4) of the IRO.
(2)	
You are required to provide separate lists of “short term debt instrument“ and  “medium term debt instrument“ held by you showing in 
respect of each debt instrument the issue number, date of issue, date of maturity, your relationship with the issuer, the amount of 
interest, profits / loss arising therefrom and the credit ratings from the credit rating agencies recognized by the Hong Kong Monetary 
Authority as at the end of the basis period.
Item 3.4	
CLAIM FOR RELIEF FROM DOUBLE TAXATION
(1)	
Double taxation relief is available only for territories with which the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region has arrangements for 
avoidance of double taxation. The Commissioner may verify your claim with the tax authority of the territory concerned.
(2)	
If a tax credit is claimed, give the foreign tax computation showing the nature and amount of the income taxed.  The amount of tax 
credit claimed must be the final amount of tax charged and paid by you.  You must notify the Commissioner in writing of any changes in 
the amount claimed.
(3)	
If any income or profits are claimed to be tax exempted pursuant to an arrangement for avoidance of double taxation, provide details of 
the income or profits so claimed and show the computation.
Item 3.5	
ADVANCE RULING
If you have obtained an Advance Ruling under section 88A of the IRO, and in preparing the return you are required to take into account the 
way in which a provision of the IRO applies to the arrangement(s) identified in the Ruling, you must submit the following information:-
(1)	
the reference number of the Ruling;
(2)	
whether or not you have relied on the Ruling in preparing and providing the return; and
(3)	
details of any material changes to the arrangement(s) identified in the Ruling.
If you have obtained the Commissioner's opinion / Advance Ruling on the compliance with the economic substance requirements in relation 
to specified foreign-sourced income, you only need to provide the requested information on the Commissioner's opinion / Advance Ruling in 
supplementary form (S19) when required to complete such form (See Notes Item 9.19 in Part  9).
Item 3.8	
PERMANENT ESTABLISHMENT IN HONG KONG
(1)	
A Hong Kong resident person means a person who is resident for tax purposes in Hong Kong. A non-Hong Kong resident person means 
a person who is not a Hong Kong resident person.
(2)	
A non-Hong Kong resident person who has a PE in Hong Kong is regarded as carrying on a trade, profession or business in Hong Kong 
for the purpose of charging profits tax.
(3)	
If you are a DTA territory resident person, the meaning of a PE is to be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions under the 
double taxation arrangements concerned.
(4)	
If you are a non-DTA territory resident person, PE includes a fixed place of business as defined in Section 4 in Part 3 of Schedule 17G to 
the IRO and agent's activities as defined in Section 7 in Part 3 of Schedule 17G to the IRO. 
(5)	
The income or loss of the person attributable to the PE is to be assessed in accordance with section 50AAK of the IRO.
Item 3.9 &	
MANDATORY ELECTRONIC FILING OF PROFITS TAX RETURN
Item 3.9.1
Section 51AAB of the IRO mandates a specified person to file a specified return in the form of an electronic record for a specified year of 
assessment while Schedule 65 to the IRO specifies the requirement for mandatory electronic filing of a specified return.  Under the first phase 
of implementation of mandatory electronic filing as specified in Schedule 65, an entity being a Part 4AA entity of an in-scope multinational 
enterprise (“MNE”) group is mandated to file its Profits Tax Return in the form of an electronic record for a year of assessment beginning on or 
after 1 April 2025 (i.e. the year of assessment 2025/26 and subsequent years).  The applicable entity may be exempted from mandatory 
electronic filing and allowed to furnish its Profits Tax Return in paper form if any of the circumstances or conditions specified by the 
Commissioner pursuant to section 51AAC(3) occurs or is satisfied.  In-scope MNE group means an MNE group with annual consolidated 
revenue of EUR 750 million or above in at least two of the four fiscal years immediately preceding the current fiscal year (a fiscal year that is 
beginning on or after 1 January 2025).  Part 4AA entity refers to a Hong Kong constituent entity, a Hong Kong standalone joint venture, a Hong 
Kong member of a joint venture group or a Part 4AA stateless constituent entity.  The mandatory electronic filing requirement adopts the 
“once-in, always-in” approach.  For details of the mandatory electronic filing requirement and exemption, please refer to the Department’s 
web site.
PART 4	
DETAILS OF THE CORPORATION
(1)	
The IRO requires that the Commissioner be informed of a change of address WITHIN 1 MONTH.
(2)	
The Business Registration Ordinance (Cap. 310) requires changes of specified particulars of a business to be notified WITHIN 1 MONTH. 
Information in Item 4.3 will be accepted as a notification under section 8 of the Business Registration Ordinance. Any notification of 
change of business address should be given to the Business Registration Office separately.
(3)	
If you cease to carry on any trade, profession or business, the Commissioner must be informed WITHIN 1 MONTH.
(4)	
You must state your 6-digit industry code of the latest version of Hong Kong Standard Industrial Classification maintained by the 
Census and Statistics Department (“C&SD”). For the index of industry codes, please refer to C&SD’s web site (www.censtatd.gov.hk). If 
you engaged in more than one business activity in the basis period, please state the industry code with reference to your principal 
business activity. If you did not have any business activity during the basis period, please state “000000” as the industry code.
PART 6	
AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE
You must complete this Part if you have appointed a representative. The authorized representative’s reference number must be any 
combination of a maximum of 10 alpha-numeric characters. Symbols and punctuation marks such as commas, hyphens, colons and the like 
cannot be used. The authorized representative should quote this reference number in all correspondence with the Department.  
PART 7	
GENERAL MATTERS
Item 7.1.1	
“Hong Kong practice unit” means –
	
(i)	
a certified public accountant (practising) who practises accountancy on the accountant’s own account under the 
	
accountant’s own name as registered under section 22(2) of the Professional Accountants Ordinance (Cap. 50) (“PAO”);
	
(ii)	 a certified public accountant (practising) who practises accountancy on the accountant’s own account under a firm name 
	
registered under Division 2 of Part 2A of the Accounting and Financial Reporting Council Ordinance (Cap. 588) (“AFRCO”);
	
(iii)	 a firm of certified public accountants (practising) that practises accountancy in partnership and registered under Division 2 
	
 of Part 2A of the AFRCO; or
	
(iv)	 a company registered as a corporate practice under Division 3 of Part 2A of the AFRCO.
Item 7.1.2	
“Certified public accountant (practising)” means a person registered as a certified public accountant under section 22 of the 
PAO and holding a practising certificate issued under section 20AAD or 20AAI of the AFRCO. The practising certificate number of 
the certified public accountant (practising) who signed the Auditor’s Report of which the certified copy is filed along the Profits 
Tax return may be retrieved from the Auditor’s Report in question.  If the Auditor’s Report does not contain such information, 
you should request the information from the certified public accountant (practising) concerned.  Reference may also be made to 
the register of certified public accountants (practising) accessible via the official website of the Accounting and Financial 
Reporting Council.
Item 7.2	
If there is a change in accounting date, state the reason(s) for the change.
Item 7.4.1	
Information in Item 7.4.1 will be accepted as a notification under section 8 of the Business Registration Ordinance. The Business 
Registration Ordinance requires changes of specified particulars of a business to be notified WITHIN 1 MONTH.
Item 7.4.3	
“Associated person” means a person controlled by you, a person who controls you, or a person who is under the control of the 
same person as you are.
Item 7.5	
You can elect to align the tax treatment of financial instruments with their accounting treatment under section 18H(2) of the IRO 
and have the related profits assessed in accordance with sections 18I to 18L of the IRO. Sections 18G to 18L of the IRO apply in 
relation to a year of assessment for which the basis period begins on or after 1 January 2018. For revocation, state the 
reason(s).
Item 7.10.1	
“Amount of one-off adjustment”
	
(a)	 in relation to life insurance business—means the amount arrived at by: deducting the net asset value of the life insurance 
	
fund immediately before the date of implementation of the risk-based capital (“RBC”) regime from the net asset value 
	
	
of the life insurance fund as at the date of implementation of the RBC regime;
	
(b)	 in relation to non-life long term insurance business—means the amount arrived at by: deducting the net asset value of the 
	
non-life long term insurance fund immediately before the date of implementation of the RBC regime from the net asset 
	
value of the non-life long term insurance fund as at the date of implementation of the RBC regime;
	
(c)	 in relation to general insurance business—means the amount arrived at by: deducting the premium liabilities attributable 
	
to general insurance business in Hong Kong as at the date of implementation of the RBC regime from the reserve for 
	
unexpired risks immediately before that date;
	
(d)	 in relation to qualifying insurance business—means the amount arrived at by: deducting the premium liabilities attributable 
	
to qualifying insurance business as at the date of implementation of the RBC regime from the reserve for unexpired risks 
	
immediately before that date.
	
If the amount is a positive figure, the amount is treated as taxable income.  If the amount is a negative figure, the amount is 
treated as deductible loss.
P.T.O.

Page 5
Item 7.11	
A family-owned special purpose entity whose beneficial interest is held, whether directly or indirectly, by an eligible family-
owned investment holding vehicle can enjoy profits tax concession. If you wish to claim profits tax concession, you are 
required to complete Item 10.9.
Item 7.12	
If you are an eligible single family office managing one or more than one eligible family-owned investment holding vehicle 
(“FIHV”) which benefits from the profits tax concession as provided in Schedule 16E to the IRO during the basis period for the 
year of assessment, you must submit the following information:-
	
(1)	 total number of FIHVs managed by you.  A cap is imposed such that not more than 50 FIHVs managed in Hong Kong by 
	
	
you may benefit from the profits tax concession.  In case the number of FIHVs exceeds the cap, you can choose which 50 
	
	
FIHVs to apply for the tax concession; 
	
(2)	 name, address and business registration number (if any) of each FIHV managed in Hong Kong by you; and
	
(3)	 whether you have complied with the specified net asset value rule under section 11 of Schedule 16E to the IRO.
PART 8	
TRANSACTIONS FOR / WITH NON-RESIDENTS
Item 8.1.1 &	
Where goods are sold on behalf of a non-resident person a separate quarterly return must be submitted on Form BIR52B. This 
Item 8.1.2	
will be issued on application. Where you have, as agent, received on behalf of a non-resident person any other trade or 
business income arising in or derived from Hong Kong, you will be asked to give further details of the agency. In this context, 
“agent” has the meaning given by section 2 of the IRO to include the agent, attorney, factor, receiver or manager in Hong Kong 
of the non-resident person, or any person in Hong Kong through whom such person is in receipt of any profits or income 
arising in or derived from Hong Kong.
Item 8.1.3	
Value creation contributions include performing the functions of, or providing assets in and assuming risks relating to the 
development, enhancement, maintenance, protection or exploitation of the intellectual property.
Item 8.2	
For hire, rental or similar charges paid or accrued to non-resident persons for the use of or the right to use movable property in 
Hong Kong.
Item 8.3	
For fees, including management, consultancy or service fee, paid or accrued to non-resident persons in respect of professional 
services rendered in Hong Kong.  Include the full amount of fees paid to non-resident persons in respect of services rendered 
partly outside Hong Kong.
PART 9	
DETAILS OF SUPPLEMENTARY FORM(S) UPLOADED
Item 9.1	
If you have connected entities and elect to be chargeable at the two-tiered rates for the subject year, a complete list of the 
connected entities carrying on a trade, profession or business in Hong Kong should be provided.  Please download 
supplementary form (S1) from the Department’s web site (www.ird.gov.hk/e_pfr) for electronic completion and submission. If 
you had no connected entity or you were a member of a group of companies, one of which was listed on the Stock Exchange of 
Hong Kong for the subject year, you are not required to submit supplementary form (S1).
Item 9.2	
Please download supplementary form (S2) from the Department’s web site (www.ird.gov.hk/e_pfr) for electronic completion and 
submission if one or more of the following apply:-
	
(1)	 You are required to complete section 1 of S2 if you had transactions with non-resident associated persons / other parts of 
	
the non-Hong Kong resident person during the basis period.
	
	
A person is associated with another person (each an affected person) if, as between them, the participation condition is 
	
met. The participation condition is met as between two persons if, at the time of carrying out the transaction, one of the 
	
affected persons was participating in the management, control or capital of the other affected person, or the same person 
	
or persons was or were participating in the management, control or capital of each of the affected persons. You have 
	
transactions with other parts of the non-Hong Kong resident person if you are a Hong Kong PE of a non-Hong Kong 
	
resident person and have transactions with the other parts of that non-Hong Kong resident person, e.g. transactions 
	
between the head office and its branch.
	
(2)	 You are required to complete section 2 of S2 if an advance pricing arrangement has been made for the basis period under 
	
section 50AAP of the IRO.
	
(3)	 You are required to complete section 3 of S2 if you belonged to an MNE group in the basis period and the group is obliged 
	
to file a country-by-country report for the accounting period in which the basis period begins.
	
	
Part 9A of the IRO provides that a country-by-country return must be filed in respect of an MNE group of which its 
	
consolidated group revenue is not less than the threshold amount prescribed under section 58D of the IRO 
	
pursuant to the requirements of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (“OECD“) (applicable to 
	
accounting period beginning on or after 1 January 2018).
	
	
“Multinational enterprise group” means a group that includes:
	
	
(a) two or more enterprises of which the tax residence is in different jurisdictions; or
	
	
(b) an enterprise that is resident for tax purposes in one jurisdiction and is subject to tax in another jurisdiction with respect 
	
      to the business carried out through a PE in that other jurisdiction.
	
(4)	 You are required to complete section 4 of S2 if you are a Part 4AA entity of an in-scope MNE group, for the purposes of the 
	
global minimum tax and Hong Kong minimum top-up tax, for the fiscal year in which the basis period begins.  For the 
	
meaning of an in-scope MNE group, please refer to Items 3.9 & 3.9.1 in Part 3 of Section G above.
Item 9.3	
If you wish to claim deduction for R&D expenditure under section 16B of the IRO and/or you had trading receipts or sale 
proceeds from intellectual property rights generated from R&D activities during the basis period, please download 
supplementary form (S3) from the Department’s web site (www.ird.gov.hk/e_pfr) for electronic completion and submission.
Item 9.4	
If you wish to claim deduction for expenditure incurred on energy efficient building installation under the Hong Kong Energy 
Efficiency Registration Scheme for Buildings administered by the Electrical and Mechanical Services Department under section 
16I of the IRO, please download supplementary form (S4) from the Department’s web site (www.ird.gov.hk/e_pfr) for electronic 
completion and submission.
Item 9.5	
If you were carrying on the business as a ship-owner, please download supplementary form (S5) from the Department’s web 
site (www.ird.gov.hk/e_pfr) for electronic completion and submission.
Item 9.6 to	
“Professional reinsurer“, “authorized captive insurer“, “specified insurer” and “licensed insurance broker company” are defined
Item 9.7 &	
in section 14AB of the IRO.  If you were carrying on the business as a professional reinsurer, an authorized captive insurer,
Item 9.13 to 	 a specified insurer, or a licensed insurance broker company, you are required to provide a computation of the assessable profits
Item 9.14	
chargeable at concessionary rate, and download the relevant supplementary form (S6/S7/S13/S14) from the Department’s web 
site (www.ird.gov.hk/e_pfr) for electronic completion and submission.
Item 9.8	
A corporation is a qualifying corporate treasury centre if any of the conditions in section 14D(2) of the IRO is satisfied.  If you 
were carrying on the business as a qualifying corporate treasury centre, you are required to provide details of interest income 
and interest expenses in relation to your intra-group financing business, a computation of the assessable profits chargeable at 
concessionary rate, and download supplementary form (S8) from the Department's web site (www.ird.gov.hk/e_pfr) for 
electronic completion and submission.
P.T.O.

Page 6
Item 9.9 &	
A corporation is a qualifying aircraft lessor or a qualifying aircraft leasing manager if the conditions in section 14H(2)/14J(2) of
Item 9.10	
the IRO are satisfied.  If you were carrying on the business as a qualifying aircraft lessor or a qualifying aircraft leasing manager, 
you are required to provide a computation of the assessable profits derived from qualifying aircraft leasing activity or qualifying 
aircraft leasing management activity, and download supplementary form (S9/S10) from the Department's web site 
(www.ird.gov.hk/e_pfr) for electronic completion and submission.
Item 9.11 & 	
A corporation is a qualifying ship lessor or a qualifying ship leasing manager if the conditions in section 14P(2)/14T(2) of the IRO
Item 9.12	
are satisfied.  If you were carrying on the business as a qualifying ship lessor or a qualifying ship leasing manager, you are 
required to provide a computation of the assessable profits derived from qualifying ship leasing activity or qualifying ship 
leasing management activity, and download supplementary form (S11/S12) from the Department’s web site (www.ird.gov.hk/e_
pfr) for electronic completion and submission.
Item 9.15	
If you wish to claim tax concession in respect of eligible carried interest as provided in Schedule 16D to the IRO, please 
download supplementary form (S15) from the Department’s web site (www.ird.gov.hk/e_pfr) for electronic completion and 
submission.
Item 9.16 to 	 A corporation is a qualifying ship agent, a qualifying ship manager or a qualifying ship broker if the conditions in section 
Item 9.18	
14ZD(4)/14ZM(4)/14ZV(4) of the IRO are satisfied.  If you were carrying on the business as a qualifying ship agent, a qualifying 
ship manager, or a qualifying ship broker, you are required to provide a computation of the assessable profits derived from 
qualifying ship agency activity, qualifying ship management activity or qualifying ship broking activity, and download 
supplementary form (S16/S17/S18) from the Department’s web site (www.ird.gov.hk/e_pfr) for electronic completion and 
submission. 
Item 9.19	
If you are a constituent entity of an MNE group, and during the basis period, any of the following specified foreign-sourced 
income: (i) accrued to you; or (ii) was received or deemed to have been received by you in Hong Kong, on or after the date 
specified below:
	
(a)	 1 January 2023 – interest, dividends, disposal gains in relation to sale of an equity interest in an entity (“equity interest 	
	
disposal gain”), or income from an intellectual property; or
	
(b)	 1 January 2024 – disposal gains in relation to intellectual property or non-intellectual property, other than equity interest 	
	
disposal gain; 
	
please download supplementary form (S19) from the Department’s web site (www.ird.gov.hk/e_pfr) for electronic completion 
and submission.  In case you only sustained a disposal loss from sale outside Hong Kong of any property in the year of 
assessment, you are not required to complete supplementary form (S19).  You may claim for utilising the loss to set off against 
your assessable profits (if applicable) in your tax computation.
Item 9.20	
If you are an eligible family-owned investment holding vehicle managed by an eligible single family office in Hong Kong, please 
download supplementary form (S20) from the Department’s web site (www.ird.gov.hk/e_pfr) for electronic completion and 
submission. “Family-owned investment holding vehicle” and “eligible single family office” are defined in Schedule 16E to the 
IRO.
Item 9.21	
If you have derived onshore gains on disposal of equity interests and wish to elect for the Tax Certainty Enhancement Scheme 
provided in Schedule 17K to the IRO, please download supplementary form (S21) from the Department’s web site (www.ird.
gov.hk/e_pfr) for electronic completion and submission.
Item 9.22	
If you wish to claim profits tax concessions for profits sourced in Hong Kong from eligible intellectual property income, please 
download supplementary form (S22) from the Department’s web site (www.ird.gov.hk/e_pfr) for electronic completion and 
submission.
PART 10	
TAX DATA  
Item 10.1	
The amount of net offshore profits should be stated.  If the amount is nil or a negative figure, “0“ should be inserted.
Item 10.3	
If a loss is incurred, “0“ should be inserted in this item.
Item 10.4	
If a loss is incurred, “0“ should be inserted in this item.
Item 10.5	
For net interest income derived from deposits placed in Hong Kong with an authorized institution (e.g. a bank or a 
deposit-taking company) exempted from payment of Profits Tax under the Exemption from Profits Tax (Interest Income) Order.
Item 10.6	
For any interest, profits or gains from qualifying debt instruments as defined in section 14A(4) of the IRO, issued on or after 
1 April 2018 and you are not an associate of the respective issuer. If a loss is incurred, “0” should be inserted in this item.
You are required to provide separate lists of qualifying debt instruments held by you showing in respect of each debt 
instrument the issue number, date of issue, date of maturity, your relationship with the issuer, the amount of interest, profits or 
gains arising therefrom, the stock code in Stock Exchange of Hong Kong (if applicable) and the credit ratings from the credit 
rating agencies recognized by the Hong Kong Monetary Authority as at the end of the basis period.
Item 10.7	
For the amount of exempted profits from transactions in assets of a class specified in Schedule 16C to the IRO and incidental 
transactions derived by a fund falling within the meaning given by section 20AM of the IRO and satisfying the exemption 
conditions in section 20AN of the IRO.  If a loss is incurred, “0” should be inserted in this item. In case of an open-ended fund 
company with sub-funds, the aggregate amount of exempted profits of each sub-fund should be stated in this item and you are 
required to provide a computation of such amount.
Item 10.8	
For the amount of exempted profits from transactions in securities in section 20AO(2)(a) to (e) of the IRO derived by a special 
purpose entity owned by a fund that is exempt under section 20AN of the IRO.  If a loss is incurred, “0” should be inserted in 
this item. 
Item 10.9	
For the amount of exempted profits from transactions specified in section 16(3) of Schedule 16E to the IRO derived by a family-
owned special purpose entity whose beneficial interest is held, whether directly or indirectly, by a family-owned investment 
holding vehicle that is chargeable at concessionary tax rate.  If a loss is incurred, “0” should be inserted in this item.
Item 10.11	
For expenditure on building refurbishment claimed for deduction under section 16F of the IRO, not the total amount of 
expenditure charged to the financial statements.
Item 10.12 &	 In ascertaining the chargeable profits there shall be deducted specified 	capital expenditure on the provision of any prescribed
Item 10.13	
fixed assets as specified in section 16G(6) of the IRO. For convenience, they are classified as “computer hardware and 
software” and “prescribed manufacturing machinery or plant”.
Item 10.14	
For specified capital expenditure on the provision of any environmental protection machinery claimed for deduction under 
section 16I(2) of the IRO.
Item 10.15	
For specified capital expenditure on the construction of any environmental protection installation claimed for deduction under 
section 16I(3) (applicable for any year of assessment prior to 2018/19 and the next succeeding 4 years), 16I(3A) (applicable for 
the year of assessment 2018/19 only); or 16I(3B) (applicable for the year of assessment 2018/19 and subsequent years) of the IRO.
Item 10.16	
For specified capital expenditure on the provision of any environment-friendly vehicles claimed for deduction under section 
16I(2) of the IRO.
Item 10.17	
For capital expenditure on the purchase of patent rights or rights to know-how claimed for deduction under sections 16E and 
16EC of the IRO. The expenditure includes legal expenses and valuation fees incurred for the purchase.
Item 10.18	
For specified capital expenditure on the purchase of specified intellectual property rights (including performer’s economic right, 
protected layout-design (topography) right and protected plant variety right for the year of assessment 2018/19 and subsequent 
years) claimed for deduction under sections 16EA and 16EC of the IRO.
Item 10.21	
For deduction claimed for interest on money borrowed from non-Hong Kong associated corporations, which satisfy the 
conditions specified in section 16(2)(g) of the IRO (applicable to year of assessment 2016/17 and subsequent years).
Item 10.22	
For deduction claimed for costs of reinstating any premises under a lease to their original condition at the end of the term of the 
lease or on an early termination of the lease (including any amount paid or payable by a lessee of the lease to the lessor of the 
lease in order to discharge the lessee's obligation for reinstatement) if certain conditions are met.
P.T.O.

Page 7
PART 12	
FINANCIAL DATA   
Please extract from your detailed Statement of Financial Position /Balance Sheet, Statement of Comprehensive Income/ Profit and Loss 
Account the financial data to fill in this Part. Financial data of an identical or a similar nature in the financial statements should be added up 
and grouped under the appropriate item.
Item 12.1	
Gross income means ALL TYPES OF INCOME including but not limited to sales and other ordinary business income, proceeds 
from the sale of capital assets and other non-taxable income, whether or not derived from the principal business activity.
Item 12.2	
Turnover refers to the revenue arising from your principal business activities. Items of revenue and gains that arise incidentally 
or are exceptional in nature should be excluded.
Item 12.3	
Opening inventories refer to the TOTAL of all kinds of opening inventories, including raw materials, work-in-progress and 
finished goods.
Item 12.4	
Purchases refer to the TOTAL of purchases of all kinds of inventories, irrespective of whether direct costs, direct expenses or 
overheads have been included.
Item 12.5	
Closing inventories refer to the TOTAL of all kinds of closing inventories, including raw materials, work-in-progress and 
finished goods.
Item 12.6 &	
Gross profit / Gross loss generally refers to the difference between turnover and cost of sales. If you are not engaged in the 
Item 12.7	
trading of goods or commodities and no such figure exists in the financial statements, insert “0” in both items.
Item 12.8	
Dividend income refers to the total amount of dividend received / receivable from shares held by you and reported in the 
financial statements.
Item 12.9	
Interest income includes bank interest, inter-company interest income, loan interest income, and any item of a similar nature.
Item 12.10	
Interest expense includes bank interest, hire-purchase interest, inter-company interest, mortgage loan interest, trust receipt 
interest, and any item of a similar nature.
Item 12.11	
Employee and director remuneration include salaries, wages, bonuses, cash allowance, commission, etc. paid to employees, 
directors’ fees and any item of a similar nature. Remuneration of staff working overseas or in the Mainland should also be included.
Item 12.12	
Share-based payments refer to the amount of share-based payments charged to the Statement of Comprehensive Income/
Profit and Loss Account in accordance with the Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standard 2 issued by the Hong Kong Institute of 
Certified Public Accountants.
Item 12.13	
Commission payments refer to payments to agents, sales representatives, etc. for their services, whether paid or accrued.
Item 12.14	
Intellectual property payments refer to:-
(a)	 royalty payments to the owner (whether a non-resident person or not) for the use of intellectual property (such as 
cinematograph or television film or tape, sound recording, patent, design, trade mark, copyright material, *layout-design 
(topography) of an integrated circuit, *performer’s right, *plant variety right, secret process or formula, and computer 
software), whether paid or accrued; and
(b)	 *payments to a performer or an organizer for the assignment of, or agreement to assign, a performer’s right in relation to a 
performance given by the performer in Hong Kong on or after 29 June 2018, whether paid or accrued. 
	
(*only applicable for sums paid or accrued on or after 29 June 2018)
Item 12.15	
Management and consultancy fee payments refer to payments for management / administrative or professional services, 
whether paid or accrued. Building management fees should not be included.
Item 12.16	
Contractor and subcontractor charges refer to charges paid / payable to third parties in respect of works / services contracted out.
Item 12.17	
Bad debts include any provision for bad debts, whether specific or general.
Item 12.18 & 	 Net profit / Net loss per account refers to net profits / net loss BEFORE tax shown in the Statement of Comprehensive 
Item 12.19	
Income/ Profit and Loss Account.
Item 12.20 &	 Accounts receivable (trade) / Accounts payable (trade) refers to trade debts.
Item 12.21
Item 12.22	
Issued share capital means all share capital issued, whether fully paid or partly paid. If you are a branch of a foreign company 
and do not have such an item in your financial statements, you should insert “0” in the item.
Item 12.23	
Total value of assets refers to the total value of your assets shown in the Statement of Financial Position / Balance Sheet.
PART 13	
DECLARATION
The return must be signed by either the taxpayer or the engaged service provider.  If it is signed by the service provider, the service provider 
must obtain a confirmation from the taxpayer stating that the information contained in the tax return, any required supplementary forms and 
the Supporting Documents is correct and complete to the best of the taxpayer's knowledge and belief.  Please download a “Confirmation for 
Engagement of Service Provider to Furnish Return” (IR1476) from the Department’s web site for completion and submission together with the 
tax return.
P.T.O.
