Application for Advance Ruling Information Sheet
Application for advance ruling 
Advance ruling system is available to taxpayers who want a ruling which is legally binding on the Commissioner. 
The Commissioner has issued a Departmental Interpretation and Practice Notes No. 31 for information and guidance 
of taxpayers.  This note can be downloaded from the website of the Inland Revenue Department (“the IRD”) 
(https://www.ird.gov.hk) (“the IRD Website”). 
The IRD will continue to give advice on more general matters through our enquiry areas, Departmental Interpretation 
& Practice Notes, etc. Rulings are binding only in respect of the taxpayer(s) identified in them and cannot be taken as 
a precedent for other taxpayers. 
Who can apply for a ruling? 
A person can apply for a ruling on the way in which a provision of the Inland Revenue Ordinance (Cap. 112) (“IRO”) 
applies to that person in relation to a particular arrangement.  Schedule 10 to the IRO provides that the Commissioner 
may make a ruling on a provision thereof. 
However, the Commissioner cannot make a ruling on any of these matters: 
—
the Commissioner’s right or obligation to exercise penal or investigative powers, or prosecute or recover debt 
from any person; and 
—
the law concerned with the administration of the tax system. 
An “arrangement” means any contract, agreement, plan or understanding (whether enforceable or unenforceable), 
including all steps and transactions by which it is carried into effect. 
Note: 
The Commissioner may make a ruling on how a provision of the IRO applies to the arrangement described in 
an application whether or not reference was made to that provision in the application. 
What is this information sheet for? 
This information sheet will help you complete your application for a ruling. If you want to obtain a ruling, you must 
fill out the form and send it to: 
Deputy Commissioner of Inland Revenue (Technical) 
15/F, Inland Revenue Centre, 5 Concorde Road 
Kai Tak, Kowloon, Hong Kong 
Introduction 
Your ability to complete all aspects of the form will depend upon your familiarity with the relevant law and the 
complexity of the issues involved. If you are unable to: 
(a)
state the provision of the IRO in respect of which the ruling is sought;
(b)
state the propositions of law (if any) in respect of which the ruling is sought; and
(c)
provide a draft ruling to the Commissioner,
you can apply to the Commissioner to waive any or all of these requirements.
Statements or reasons and draft answers to the issues and questions identified are useful because they ensure that the 
Commissioner fully understands what ruling you are seeking and why you are seeking it.  A full understanding of the 
requirements of and the reasons for the application can avoid unnecessary delays. 
The form is divided into 6 parts 

Details of the applicant and representative

Commissioner’s power to rule

Disclosure requirements

General questions

Spontaneous exchange of information on tax rulings

Consultation, application fee, declarations and checklist
Applicant and representative details 
The front page of the form requests the applicant and representative (where the application is made on behalf of an 
applicant(s)) to provide certain details. 
Representative details 
Where a representative is making an application on behalf of an applicant(s), the representative must supply his details 
and those of the applicant(s).  The ruling will be sent to the representative. 
Commissioner’s power to rule 
The questions in this part are designed to determine whether the Commissioner has the power to rule on the arrangement 
in question. 
1.
The Commissioner may not rule on an arrangement which is subject to an objection or appeal either by the person
who applied for the ruling or any other person.
2.
The Commissioner may not rule on a tax that is due and payable at the date of application for a ruling.
3.
The Commissioner may not rule if a ruling already exists on how a provision of the IRO applies to the applicant(s)
and the arrangement specified in the application.
4.
The Commissioner may not rule if the relevant return has been or is due to be lodged.
5.
The Commissioner may not rule if the Commissioner is undertaking an audit on how a provision of the IRO
applies to the applicant(s) or an arrangement similar to the arrangement specified in the application.
IR1298 (12/2023)

 
Disclosure requirements 
The items in this part deal with the disclosure requirements.  The law requires this information before the 
Commissioner will issue a ruling. Provide the information on separate sheets which should be attached to the form 
together with any relevant documents. 
1. 
You need to state clearly what question(s) you want the Commissioner to answer.  
2. 
You need to identify the issue(s) which you need to resolve. 
3. 
You must set out a full description of the facts and the arrangement in question. Where appropriate, you must 
provide the additional information referred to in the part “Information and documents to be provided with a 
ruling request” in the Departmental Interpretation and Practice Notes No. 31.  You must disclose all relevant 
facts and documents relating to the arrangement for which the ruling is sought, for example, the fact that a party 
to the arrangement is an associated person may be a relevant fact.  Accordingly, appropriate disclosure should 
be made. 
4. 
You must state the provision(s) of the IRO in respect of which the ruling is sought. 
5. 
You are required to state the propositions of law (including case law) which are relevant to the issues raised in 
your application. 
 
To the extent that it is relevant and material to your application, you must set out any legal reasons and arguments 
supporting your preferred interpretation.  You should also indicate any legal arguments you are aware of that 
may be contrary to your interpretation. 
 
Where relevant to do so, you should refer to the wording of the relevant taxation law and provide reasonable 
authoritative support.  If you have obtained written advice from a lawyer or an accountant, you should attach 
copies of that advice or correspondence to the application. 
6. 
You must provide a draft ruling. 
7. 
If you cannot provide all the information required above, you can ask the Commissioner to waive all or any of 
these requirements.  You need to explain why you cannot provide the information requested. 
Notes: (a) The Commissioner may at any time request further relevant information. 
 
(b) If the application only relates to the economic substance requirement of the Foreign-sourced Income 
Exemption Regime specified in section 15K of the IRO, you are not required to provide the information 
requested in items 1 to 6.  If your application covers more than 50 entities, it must be furnished together 
with a duly completed “Annex to Data Form (Group Application)”, which can be downloaded from the IRD 
Website. 
 
General questions 
This part deals with general questions which will enable the Commissioner to quickly determine whether the 
application satisfies the requirements of the legislation. 
1. 
What is the year(s) of assessment and other period(s) to which the application relates? 
2. 
Has an application been lodged in respect of the arrangement for other year(s) of assessment and other period(s)? 
3. 
If the application concerns more than one taxpayer, have you obtained the written consent of all the taxpayers? 
 
Spontaneous exchange of information on tax rulings  
Under the transparency framework of OECD’s Action 5 2015 Final Report, rulings including those relating to 
preferential regimes, permanent establishment and conduit arrangement are required to be spontaneously exchanged 
with the relevant jurisdictions.  Generally, exchange of information on the relevant rulings needs to take place with:  
(a) 
the jurisdictions of residence of all related parties with which the applicant enters into a transaction for which 
a ruling is granted or which gives rise to income from related parties benefiting from a preferential treatment 
(this rule also applies in a permanent establishment context); and 
(b) 
the residence jurisdiction of the ultimate parent company and the immediate parent company. 
 
The related parties threshold has been set at 25%.  Two parties would be considered related if the first person has a 
25% or greater investment in the second person or there is a third person that holds a 25% or greater investment in 
both. 
 
Rulings covered 
 
With which jurisdiction does information need to be exchanged 
1. 
Preferential regime 
(a) 
The jurisdictions of residence of all related parties (the 25% threshold would 
apply), with which the taxpayer enters into a transaction for which a preferential 
treatment is granted or which gives rise to income from related parties 
benefiting from a preferential treatment (this rule also applies in a permanent 
establishment context); and 
 
 
(b) 
The residence jurisdiction of (i) the ultimate parent company and (ii) the 
immediate parent company 
2. 
Permanent 
establishment 
(a) 
The residence jurisdiction of the head office, or the jurisdiction of the 
permanent establishment, as the case may be; and 
 
 
(b) 
The residence jurisdiction of (i) the ultimate parent company and (ii) the 
immediate parent company 
3. 
Related party 
conduit 
(a) 
The jurisdiction of residence of any related party making payments to the 
conduit (directly or indirectly); 
 
 
(b) 
The jurisdiction of residence of the ultimate beneficial owner (which in most 
cases will be the ultimate parent company) of the payments made to the conduit; 
and 
 
 
(c) 
To the extent not already covered by (b), the residence jurisdiction of (i) the 
ultimate parent company and (ii) the immediate parent company 

 
Consultation 
Before the Commissioner makes a ruling, the Commissioner may give the applicant(s) a reasonable opportunity to 
consult if the content of his proposed ruling differs from that requested by the applicant(s). 
 
Application fee 
Have you included a payment of the application fee with your application?  Rulings are charged on a full cost recovery 
basis. 
 
Declarations and checklist 
Have you signed and dated the application declaring the truth and accuracy of the information provided? 
The checklist is to help you ensure the ruling application is correctly completed in a form approved by the 
Commissioner.  It is also particularly useful for checking whether all attachments that should accompany the ruling 
application are attached. 
 
Conclusion 
You may withdraw your application for a ruling at any time before a ruling is made.  This may be done by giving 
notice in writing to the Commissioner.  Withdrawal of an application will not affect your liability for any fees incurred 
in processing the application up to the date of withdrawal. 
 
If you require further assistance in the preparation of your ruling application, please contact: 
 
Deputy Commissioner of Inland Revenue (Technical) 
 
15/F, Inland Revenue Centre, 5 Concorde Road 
 
Kai Tak, Kowloon, Hong Kong 
 
Personal Information Collection Statement 
The provision of personal data required by this form and during the processing of your application is voluntary.  
However, if you do not provide sufficient information, the Department may not be able to process your application.  
The Department will use the information provided by you for the purposes of the Ordinances administered by it 
and may disclose/transfer any or all of such information to any other parties provided that the disclosure/transfer 
is authorized or permitted by law.  Except where there is an exemption provided under the Personal Data (Privacy) 
Ordinance, you have the right to request access to and correction of your personal data.  You should send such 
request in writing to the Assessor at GPO Box 132, Hong Kong and quote your file number in this Department. 
 
 
