- 1 - 
 
Frequently Asked Questions: 
Non-resident Persons (Other Than Individuals)  
 
Q.1   Is an offshore company, i.e. one incorporated outside Hong Kong, liable to pay 
Hong Kong profits tax? 
 
A.1     The Inland Revenue Ordinance (“IRO”) contains no exemption from profits tax for 
offshore companies. Whether an offshore company is liable to profits tax depends 
on the nature and extent of its activities in Hong Kong. 
 
Q.2 
Under what circumstances is an offshore company liable to profits tax? 
 
A.2     Generally speaking, a company is liable to profits tax if it carries on a  trade, profession 
or business in Hong Kong and has profits arising in or derived from Hong Kong from 
such trade, profession or business. This applies equally to Hong Kong companies and 
those incorporated overseas. 
 
Q.3   How does the IRD decide whether a company is carrying on a business in Hong 
Kong? 
 
A.3    This is a question of fact and has to be decided by reference to the circumstances of 
each case. It should, however, be noted that a company need not have extensive 
activities in Hong Kong before it is considered to be carrying on a business here. 
Furthermore, the activities of a company’s agents in Hong Kong may also be relevant. 
 
Q.4   How does the IRD decide whether a company’s profits arise in or are derived 
from Hong Kong? 
 
A.4     Again this is a question of fact.    The general guideline is to ascertain the operations 
of the company that give rise to the profits and the places where such operations are 
carried out. Further details of the IRD’s views on the determination of the territorial 
source of profits are contained in Departmental Interpretation and Practice Note 
(“DIPN”) No. 21: Locality of Profits, which can be downloaded from the IRD’s 
website at https://www.ird.gov.hk/eng/pdf/dipn21.pdf. 

- 2 - 
 
Q.5   What are the reporting requirements for an offshore company carrying on a 
business in Hong Kong? 
 
A.5     An offshore company carrying on a business in Hong Kong is subject to the same 
reporting requirements as a Hong Kong company. The basic requirements are that 
the company has to register its business with the Business Registration Office of the 
IRD and to furnish profits tax returns issued to it. 
 
If the company has profits chargeable to tax for any year of assessment but has not 
received any return from the IRD, it has to inform the IRD in writing of its liability 
within 4 months after the end of the basis period for that year of assessment. 
 
Furthermore, the company is required to keep sufficient records (in English or Chinese) 
to enable its assessable profits to be readily ascertained and the records must be retained 
for at least seven years after the completion of the relevant transactions. 
 
Q.6    Is it necessary for an offshore company to submit audited accounts when it files 
its profits tax return? 
 
A.6     Where the company is incorporated in a jurisdiction whose laws  do not  require 
accounts to be audited and no audit has been performed on the company’s accounts, 
the IRD would accept unaudited accounts filed in support of the return.  However, if 
an audit has actually been carried out notwithstanding that there is no such 
requirement under the laws of the relevant jurisdiction, the audited accounts should be 
submitted with the return. 
 
Where an offshore company’s head office is outside Hong Kong but it has a branch in 
Hong Kong, the IRD is generally prepared to accept unaudited branch accounts without 
the cover of audited world-wide accounts. However, the assessor may request a copy 
of the audited world-wide accounts if circumstances warrant. 
 
Q.7  My company has made some royalties/assignment fees/rental payments to an 
offshore company which as far as I know does not carry on any business in 
Hong Kong.  Are the royalties/assignment fees/rental income received by the 
offshore company chargeable to profits tax? 
 
A.7 
Even if the offshore company does not carry on any business in Hong Kong, the 
royalties/assignment fees/rentals it received are nevertheless chargeable to profits tax if 
they are: 

- 3 - 
 
(a) 
payments received from the exhibition or use in Hong Kong of cinematograph or 
television film or tape, any sound recording, or any advertising material 
connected with such film, tape, or recording; 
(b) 
payments received for the use, or the right to the use, in Hong Kong of any patent, 
design, trade mark, copyright material, *layout-design (topography) of an 
integrated circuit, *performer’s right, *plant variety right, secret process or 
formula; 
(c) 
payments received for the use, or the right to the use, outside Hong Kong of any 
patent, design, trade mark, copyright material, *layout-design (topography) of 
an integrated circuit, *performer’s right, *plant variety right, secret process or 
formula, which are deductible in ascertaining the assessable profits of a 
person under Profits Tax; 
(d) 
payments received for an assignment of, or an agreement to assign, a performer’s 
right in relation to a performance given by a performer in Hong Kong on or after 
29 June 2018 and they were paid or accrued to the performer or an organizer; or  
(e) 
payments received by way of hire, rental or similar charges for the use or the right 
to use movable property in Hong Kong. 
 
(*not applicable for payments received or accrued before 29 June 2018) 
 
For the payments specified in paragraphs (a) to (c) above, the assessable profits are taken 
to be 30% of the payments (or 10%, if the payments were received by or accrued to 
the offshore company before 1 April 2003) but may be taken to be 100% of the 
payments if the offshore company is your company’s associate.  The tax payable is 
then computed by applying the appropriate tax rate to the assessable profits so arrived 
at. Furthermore, except for the payments specified in paragraph (e) above, the 
offshore company is chargeable in your company’s name and your company is required 
under the IRO to withhold from the payments made to the offshore company 
sufficient money for the payment of the tax. 
 
Q.8 
Are there any tax rules that are specifically relevant to offshore companies? 
 
A.8 
Basically, offshore companies and Hong Kong companies are treated in the same way. 
However, if a company is a non-resident, the following should be noted: 
 
(a) 
A non-resident is chargeable to tax either directly or in the name of his agent 
in respect of his Hong Kong sourced profits from a trade, profession or business 
carried on in Hong Kong. The tax may be recovered out of the assets of 
the non-resident or from the agent and the agent is required to retain from the 
non-resident’s assets sufficient money to pay the tax. 

- 4 - 
 
 
(b) 
A non-resident receiving royalty income/assignment fees as described in the 
answer to Q.7 is subject to profits tax in the way explained therein. 
 
(c) 
A local person (including a company) who sells goods in Hong Kong on 
behalf of a non-resident shall furnish quarterly returns to the IRD showing the 
gross proceeds from the sales and at the same time pay to the IRD a sum equal 
to 1% of the sale proceeds, or such lesser sum as may have been agreed by 
the IRD. 
 
(d) 
Where a non-resident receives sums directly or indirectly from the performance 
in Hong Kong by a non-resident entertainer or sportsman, special procedures of 
assessment and collection of tax would apply.  For more details, see pamphlet: 
“Taxation of non-resident entertainers and sportsmen in Hong Kong”, which 
can 
be 
downloaded 
from 
the 
IRD’s 
website 
at 
https://www.ird.gov.hk/eng/pdf/pam48e.pdf. 
 
It should however be noted that whether a company is a non-resident is largely a 
question of fact and that not every offshore company is regarded as a non-resident. 
 
Q.9 
My company has made some payments to an offshore partnership rendering 
services related to arbitration proceedings in Hong Kong.  Is the service income of 
the offshore partnership chargeable to profits tax? 
 
A.9 
If the offshore partnership carries on a trade, profession or business in Hong Kong, it is 
liable to pay profits tax in Hong Kong.  The answers to Q.1 to Q.5 above are also 
applicable to offshore partnerships.  The assessable profits will be charged at standard 
rate or two-tiered rates in computing the profits tax liability.  For more details on the tax 
rates, please visit the IRD’s website at https://www.ird.gov.hk/eng/tax/ind_tra.htm. 
 
Q10.  How can an offshore company be more certain about whether its activities will 
give rise to profits tax liability? 
 
A10.   The company may consider applying, on payment of an appropriate  fee,  for  an 
advance ruling under section 88A of the IRO in respect of a contemplated transaction 
or arrangement. Details of the application procedures are set out in DIPN No. 31: 
Advance Rulings, which can be downloaded from the IRD’s website at  
https://www.ird.gov.hk/eng/pdf/dipn31.pdf. 
 
 
 

- 5 - 
 
 
October 2020 
 
(This leaflet is issued for general information only) 
