 
 
Our website : www.ird.gov.hk 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Inland Revenue Department  
The Government of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region 
of the People's Republic of China 
 
 
 
 
 
 
GUIDANCE ON MUTUAL AGREEMENT PROCEDURE 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
January 2023 
 
 
 
 

 
GUIDANCE ON MUTUAL AGREEMENT PROCEDURE 
 
 
CONTENT 
 
 
Paragraph 
Mutual Agreement Procedure as Dispute Resolution Mechanism 
 
Overview 
1 
DTA jurisdiction residents can apply for MAP 
3 
Time limit for making MAP request 
4 
 
 
Access to MAP 
 
Transfer pricing 
7 
Tax audit settlement  
8 
Bona-fide taxpayer-initiated foreign self-assessment 
9 
MAP and anti-abuse provisions 
10 
 
 
MAP Process 
 
Two-stage process 
11 
Stage One 
 
- Submission of a MAP request 
14 
- Information required for MAP request 
15 
- Determining whether the MAP request is justified 
19 
- Unilateral solution 
23 
Stage Two 
 
- Duty to negotiate and endeavour for resolution 
24 
- Competent authority communications 
27 
- Competent authority agreement reached and accepted 
31 
- No competent authority agreement reached or accepted 
33 
- Arbitration 
34 
 
 
Timeframe for Resolution 
 
Target time for resolving a MAP case 
36 
No time limit for implementing MAP solution 
37 
 
 

 
ii 
 
Paragraph 
MAP and Domestic Remedial Process 
 
Interaction between MAP and objection process under the IRO 
 
- Concurrent avenues to MAP and objection 
39 
- Objection undetermined when competent authority 
41 
agreement reached 
- Objection determined before competent authority 
43 
agreement reached 
Interaction between MAP and domestic remedial process in the 
46 
other DTA jurisdiction 
 
 
Miscellaneous Matters 
 
Multilateral and multi-year application 
50 
Payment of tax during MAP process 
52 
Penalties 
53 
Advance pricing arrangement 
54 
MAP profile 
55 
Contact information 
56 

 
 
1 
 
MUTUAL AGREEMENT PROCEDURE AS DISPUTE RESOLUTION 
MECHANISM 
 
Overview 
 
1. 
The Mutual Agreement Procedure (MAP) Article in the double 
taxation agreements or arrangements (DTAs) enables a taxpayer to initiate the 
procedure where it is considered that the actions of the competent authority of 
one or both of the jurisdictions concerned result or will result in taxation not in 
accordance with the provisions of a DTA.   
 
2. 
MAP is a process which enables the competent authorities to interact 
with the intention to resolve disputes regarding the application of the DTA.  
The competent authorities are obliged to use their best endeavours to reach an 
agreement with a view to avoiding taxation which is not in accordance with the 
DTA.  In the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region (Hong Kong), the 
competent authority is the Commissioner of Inland Revenue (the Commissioner) 
or the Commissioner’s authorised representative.  The competent authority of 
Hong Kong has the autonomy to enter into MAP agreements in accordance with 
the terms of the DTA without being dependent on the approval or the direction 
of the officers of the Inland Revenue Department (IRD) directly involved with 
the adjustment at issue and without being influenced by policy considerations.  
 
DTA jurisdiction residents can apply for MAP 
 
3. 
A MAP request can be made when a taxpayer considers that the actions 
of the tax administrations of one or both jurisdictions result or will result in 
taxation not in accordance with the DTA.  For Hong Kong, the earlier DTAs 
require a taxpayer to make the request to the competent authority of the 
taxpayer’s jurisdiction of residence.  Some recent DTAs contain a provision 
which allows a taxpayer to request MAP assistance from the competent authority 
of either jurisdiction.  The IRD does not impose any fee for MAP request.         
 
 

 
 
2 
 
Time limit for making MAP request 
 
4. 
A MAP request should be made within the time limit from the first 
notification of the actions giving rise to taxation not in accordance with the 
provisions of the DTA.  Such taxation must have occurred or is almost certain 
to occur.  It should not be just a possibility. 
 
5. 
The time limit is specified in the MAP Article of the DTA and in most 
cases is three years of the first notification of the action which results or is likely 
to result in double taxation.  Failure to observe the time limit will result in the 
rejection of the MAP request. 
 
6. 
The competent authority of Hong Kong will interpret the time limit in 
a way so as not to disadvantage the taxpayer.  In general, the time limit will 
usually commence from the date on which the relevant notice of assessment or 
computation of loss is issued by the IRD or the equivalent notification is issued 
by the tax authority of the other DTA jurisdiction.   
 
 
ACCESS TO MAP 
 
Transfer pricing 
 
7. 
Hong Kong provides access to MAP in cases involving transfer pricing 
between associated enterprises and attribution of profits to permanent 
establishment since each Hong Kong’s DTA contains the Associated Enterprises 
Article and the Business Profits Article which provide for transfer pricing and 
profit reallocation adjustments.  Sections 50AAN and 50AAO of the Inland 
Revenue Ordinance (Cap. 112) (IRO) also provide that where a person makes a 
MAP request under a DTA in relation to the arm’s length profits of the person 
or the person’s permanent establishment in Hong Kong, and a MAP solution (i.e. 
a unilateral solution, a MAP agreement or an arbitration decision) is arrived at, 
the person’s profits should be assessed to Hong Kong tax in a way that is 
consistent with the MAP solution. 

 
 
3 
 
Tax audit settlement 
 
8. 
Hong Kong will not preclude access to MAP in cases where the issues 
in dispute have already been resolved through an audit settlement between the 
taxpayer and the IRD.  However, it would be difficult for the competent 
authorities of Hong Kong and the other DTA jurisdiction to negotiate and come 
to an agreement on a position that deviates from the audit settlement which has 
already been accepted by the taxpayer or its associated enterprise. 
 
Bona fide taxpayer-initiated foreign self-assessment 
 
9. 
Under the domestic laws of some DTA jurisdictions, a taxpayer may be 
permitted under appropriate circumstances to amend a previously filed tax return 
by adjusting the price for a controlled transaction between associated enterprises 
or the profits attributable to a permanent establishment, in order to reflect a result 
in accordance with the arm’s length principle.  Hong Kong will consider 
providing access to MAP with respect to such an adjustment provided that it is 
bona fide made by the taxpayer.  In this regard, a taxpayer-initiated foreign 
adjustment would be considered bona fide where the taxpayer has spent good 
efforts to compute and report correctly the taxable income from a controlled 
transaction or the profits attributable to a permanent establishment and where the 
taxpayer has otherwise timely and properly fulfilled all of its obligations related 
to such taxable income or profits under the tax laws of Hong Kong and the other 
DTA jurisdiction. 
 
MAP and anti-abuse provisions 
 
10. 
There is no general rule denying MAP access in cases of perceived 
abuse.  Following the incorporation of general anti-abuse rule into some recent 
Hong Kong’s DTAs, the interpretation and application of such rule would fall 
within the scope of the MAP.  Hong Kong will therefore admit cases into MAP 
where the issue for discussion is the application of the anti-abuse provisions in 
the DTA or whether the application of the domestic anti-avoidance provisions 
may conflict with the provisions of the DTA. 

 
 
4 
 
 
 
MAP PROCESS 
 
Two-stage process 
 
11. 
There are two stages to the MAP.  The first stage involves the 
taxpayer and the competent authority of the DTA jurisdiction to which the MAP 
request is made.  The second stage involves the endeavours of the competent 
authorities of both DTA jurisdictions to resolve the case.  
 
12. 
The first stage has three steps:  
 
(a)  
the presentation of a case by the taxpayer to the competent 
authority of either DTA jurisdiction;  
 
(b)  
consideration by the competent authority whether the case 
presented is justified; and 
 
(c)  
consideration by the competent authority whether it is able to 
arrive at a satisfactory solution itself.  
 
13. 
If the case cannot be resolved at the first stage, the competent authority 
has an obligation to endeavour to resolve the case by mutual agreement with the 
competent authority of the other DTA jurisdiction.  
 
Stage One  
 
Submission of a MAP request 
 
14. 
In Hong Kong, a taxpayer should make a MAP request by completing 
Form IR1454 and sending it to:  
 
 

 
 
5 
 
 
The Hong Kong Competent Authority  
Tax Treaty Section 
Inland Revenue Department 
GPO Box 10851, Hong Kong 
(Attn: Chief Assessor (Tax Treaty)) 
 
Information required for MAP request 
 
15. 
The taxpayer should include the following information in support of a 
MAP request:  
 
(a) 
The identity of the taxpayer covered in the MAP request, 
including the name, address, taxpayer identification number or 
birth date, contact details and if more than one taxpayer is 
covered by the MAP request, the relationship between the 
taxpayers; 
 
(b) 
The basis for the request, including the DTA and the specific 
provision(s) thereof which are considered not correctly applied 
by either Hong Kong or the other DTA jurisdiction (and to 
indicate which jurisdiction and the contact details of the 
relevant person(s) in that jurisdiction (if it is not Hong Kong));  
 
(c) 
The facts of the case, including any documentation to support 
these facts, the taxation years or period involved and the 
amounts involved (in both the local currency and foreign 
currency);  
 
(d) 
An analysis of the issue requested to be resolved via MAP, 
including the taxpayer’s interpretation of the application of the 
specific DTA provision(s) which supports its claim that the 
provision of the specific DTA is not correctly applied by either 
Hong Kong or the other DTA jurisdiction and the proposed 

 
 
6 
 
basis of resolving the issues.  Relevant documentation (e.g. 
documentation required under transfer pricing legislative or 
published guidance, copy of tax assessment or other 
notification of action giving rise to the issues for MAP, etc.) 
should also be provided;  
 
(e) 
Whether the MAP request was also submitted to the competent 
authority of the other DTA jurisdiction.  If yes, please state so 
in the MAP request and provide the date of such submission, 
the name and the designation of the person or the office to 
which the MAP request was submitted.  A copy of that 
submission (including all documentations filed with that 
submission) should also be provided unless the content of both 
MAP submissions are exactly the same; 
 
(f) 
Whether the MAP request was also submitted to another 
authority under another Instrument that provides for a 
mechanism to resolve treaty-related disputes.  If yes, please 
state so in the MAP request and provide the date of such 
submission, the name and the designation of the person or the 
office to which the MAP request was submitted.  A copy of 
that submission (including all documentations filed with that 
submission) should also be provided unless the content of both 
MAP submissions are exactly the same; 
 
(g) 
Whether the issue involved was previously dealt with in an 
advance ruling, advance pricing arrangement, settlement 
agreement or by any tax tribunal or court.  If yes, a copy of 
these rulings, agreements or decisions should be provided;  
 
(h) 
Whether any relief has been sought by the taxpayer under the 
laws of Hong Kong or the other DTA jurisdiction in respect of 
the issue.  If such a relief is sought under the domestic laws of 
the other DTA jurisdiction, please provide a schedule of any 

 
 
7 
 
time limits in respect of the years / periods for which the relief 
is sought; 
 
(i) 
If applicable, the details of the taxpayer’s authorized 
representative with a copy of the authorization letter; 
 
(j) 
A statement confirming that all information and documentation 
provided in the MAP request is accurate and that the taxpayer 
will assist the competent authority in its resolution of the issues 
presented in the MAP request by furnishing any other 
information or documentation required by the competent 
authority in a timely manner; 
 
(k) 
A statement agreeing that all the information and documents 
submitted may be provided to the competent authority of the 
other DTA jurisdiction for processing the MAP request. 
 
16. 
If the relevant information is not in English or Chinese, the taxpayer is 
required to provide the English translation.  Under section 50AAB(2) of the 
IRO, the competent authority of Hong Kong may ask the taxpayer to provide 
further information in support of its MAP request if necessary.  In any event, 
the taxpayer will not be denied access to MAP in Hong Kong on the grounds that 
insufficient information is provided.  However, if the taxpayer fails to provide 
the required information despite repeated requests, the competent authority of 
Hong Kong may consider the objection raised in the request as not justified, after 
consulting the competent authority of the other DTA jurisdiction.  
 
17. 
Where a taxpayer makes a MAP request to the competent authority of 
a DTA jurisdiction in anticipation of Hong Kong providing relief, a copy of the 
request should be provided at the same time to the competent authority of Hong 
Kong.  The provision of a copy at this time may:  
 
(a) 
assist in the resolution of the case in the quickest possible time 
by enabling the competent authority of Hong Kong to 

 
 
8 
 
undertake a preliminary review of the case;  
 
(b) 
ensure that the competent authorities of Hong Kong and the 
other DTA jurisdiction are satisfied that the request has been 
made within the time limit specified in the DTA; and  
 
(c) 
ensure that the requirements for making the request to the 
competent authority of the other DTA jurisdiction have been 
satisfied.  
 
18. 
Upon receipt of a MAP request, the competent authority of Hong Kong 
will notify the competent authority of the other DTA jurisdiction and exchange 
information relevant to the request. 
 
Determining whether the MAP request is justified  
 
19. 
The competent authority to whom MAP request is made must consider 
whether the case is justified (e.g. whether the taxpayer has reasonable grounds 
upon which to seek the competent authority’s consideration).  The action 
complained of must be directed specifically at the taxpayer. 
 
20. 
The competent authority of Hong Kong could be expected to consider 
a case as being justified where the taxpayer has received written notification 
from either the IRD or the tax authority of the other DTA jurisdiction of the 
actual or proposed taxation.  This notification should include the details of 
adjustment, the amount involved and the basis of calculation.  
 
21. 
Actions that the competent authority of Hong Kong is unlikely to 
consider sufficient to justify a case include:  
 
(a)  
the mere existence of an audit or an examination of the affairs 
of the taxpayer or its associated non-resident enterprise;  
 
(b)  
requests from the competent authority of Hong Kong or the 

 
 
9 
 
other DTA jurisdiction for an exchange of information about 
the dealings between the taxpayer and the associated non-
resident enterprise;  
 
(c)  
discussions between the taxpayer and the tax authority of the 
other DTA jurisdiction about the amount and source of profits 
considered attributable to the permanent establishment under 
the Business Profits Article;  
 
(d)  
discussions between the associated non-resident enterprise and 
the tax authority of the other DTA jurisdiction concerning non-
arm’s length dealings between the taxpayer and the associated 
non-resident enterprise; or  
 
(e)  
interpretation of tax laws, public advice or guidance issued by 
the IRD or the tax authority of the other DTA jurisdiction which 
is of a general nature, even if the taxpayer believes that such 
interpretation, advice or guidance will apply to it and if applied, 
may result in taxation not in accordance with the DTA.  
 
22. 
In cases where the competent authority of Hong Kong considers that 
the taxpayer’s MAP request is not justified, the competent authority of Hong 
Kong will write to the competent authority of the other DTA jurisdiction setting 
out the reasons why the competent authority of Hong Kong believes that the 
request is not justified and invites the competent authority of the other DTA 
jurisdiction to provide its views before making a decision on whether to accept 
or reject the request.  The taxpayer will be informed if its request is eventually 
rejected.  
 
Unilateral solution 
 
23. 
If the MAP request is considered justified and the issue involved can 
be resolved on a unilateral basis, the competent authority of Hong Kong may 
grant relief, under the provisions of the DTA, without the need to enter into 

 
 
10 
 
bilateral discussion with the competent authority of the other DTA jurisdiction.  
However, if the case cannot be resolved unilaterally at the first stage, such as 
when the taxation not in accordance with the DTA is due wholly or partly to an 
action in the other DTA jurisdiction, the competent authority of Hong Kong will 
try to resolve the case by mutual agreement with the competent authority of the 
other DTA jurisdiction under stage two. 
 
Stage Two  
 
Duty to negotiate and endeavour for resolution 
 
24. 
Stage two commences with the competent authority that has been 
presented with the case approaching the other competent authority.  In this 
stage, both competent authorities have the duty to negotiate and to use their best 
endeavours to resolve the case.  However, this does not mean that the 
competent authorities will resolve every case or necessarily relieve all taxation 
not in line with the DTA. 
 
25. 
In all instances and as part of the negotiations, the competent 
authorities will seek to establish a mutual understanding of the relevant 
principles embodied in the DTA, the facts of the case and how those principles 
are to be applied so as to relieve any taxation not in accordance with the DTA.  
 
26. 
For example, if Hong Kong makes the primary transfer pricing or profit 
reallocation adjustment, the competent authority of Hong Kong will try to 
demonstrate that the adjustment results in taxation in accordance with the DTA 
and the other DTA jurisdiction should relieve any resultant double taxation.  
The competent authority of Hong Kong will also seek to comprehend fully the 
position of the competent authority of the other DTA jurisdiction and explore 
opportunities to reach an agreement. 
 
Competent authority communications  
 
27. 
Communications between the competent authorities will usually be 

 
 
11 
 
through an exchange of position papers.  Information provided by the taxpayer 
to the competent authority of Hong Kong will be taken into account in the 
preparation of the Hong Kong’s position papers.  
 
28. 
Where a case involves significant issues upon which agreement cannot 
be reached through the exchange of position papers, the competent authorities 
may meet for negotiations. The taxpayer does not have a right to be present at 
such negotiations.  However, where both competent authorities agree, the 
taxpayer may personally present its case to the competent authorities jointly or 
be called upon to make any clarification.  Where the competent authority of the 
other DTA jurisdiction does not agree to a joint presentation, the taxpayer will 
still be given an opportunity to provide input to the competent authority of Hong 
Kong for consideration.  
 
29. 
The competent authority of Hong Kong will endeavour to ensure that 
communications are undertaken on a timely basis to facilitate resolution of the 
case as quickly as possible.  The taxpayer will be kept informed of the progress 
by the competent authority.  
 
30. 
Exchange of information between competent authorities is undertaken 
under the Exchange of Information Article of the relevant DTA and will be 
subject to the secrecy provisions of that Article.  
 
Competent authority agreement reached and accepted 
 
31. 
An agreement reached by both competent authorities may result in the 
IRD:  
 
(a) 
restoring the taxpayer’s original tax position by withdrawing 
the adjustment which led to the MAP request;  
 
(b) 
making a correlative adjustment or providing a tax credit to 
relieve any double taxation; or 
 

 
 
12 
 
(c) 
amending the taxpayer’s assessment or tax payable as per the 
agreement.  
 
32. 
Where a competent authority agreement is reached, the competent 
authority of Hong Kong will write to notify the taxpayer and advise the taxpayer 
on the next course of action within one month.   The agreement will not be 
implemented unless the taxpayer accepts the agreement as the final resolution by 
giving a written notice to the competent authority of Hong Kong.  If the 
taxpayer accepts the agreement, the competent authority of Hong Kong will 
proceed to conclude the case, implement the agreement and provide the relief as 
appropriate.  In most cases, where the implementation of the competent 
authority agreement only requires the deduction of taxable income or the 
increase of losses carried-forward, no further action by the taxpayer is necessary 
for the agreement to be implemented.     
 
No competent authority agreement reached or accepted 
 
33. 
If the competent authorities are unable to reach an agreement or the 
taxpayer does not accept such an agreement, subject to any referral of the issue 
for arbitration under the DTA, the competent authority of Hong Kong will close 
the case without implementing any agreement.  The taxpayer may continue to 
seek remedy under the IRO or the domestic laws of the other DTA jurisdiction 
if still applicable.   
 
Arbitration 
 
34. 
Some Hong Kong’s DTAs provide access to arbitration for an issue 
unresolved via MAP.  Where the competent authorities are unable to reach an 
agreement to resolve the issue via MAP within the time limit prescribed under 
the MAP Article and no decision on the issue has been rendered by a court or 
administrative tribunal of Hong Kong or the other DTA jurisdiction, the taxpayer 
may request the competent authority to refer the unresolved issues for arbitration 
if it is provided under the relevant DTA.   
 

 
 
13 
 
35. 
Subject to the acceptance by the taxpayer, the mutual agreement that 
implements the arbitration decision shall be binding on Hong Kong and the other 
DTA jurisdiction.  If the taxpayer rejects the outcome of the arbitration, it may 
continue to seek remedy under the IRO or the domestic laws of the other DTA 
jurisdiction if still applicable.  In such a case, Hong Kong would consider that 
the efforts of the competent authorities to resolve the case via MAP have been 
exhausted. 
 
 
TIMEFRAME FOR RESOLUTION 
 
Target time for resolving a MAP case 
 
36. 
The competent authority of Hong Kong aims to resolve a MAP case 
(including the implementation of any MAP solution) within 24 months from 
receiving the complete request.  While the competent authority of Hong Kong 
works to achieve timely resolution of the MAP case, the complexity of issues 
involved in each case will determine the actual time needed to resolve the case.  
In any event, the competent authority of Hong Kong will try to resolve any MAP 
case as quickly as possible.   
 
No time limit for implementing MAP solution  
 
37. 
Specific provisions in a DTA dealing with time limits for 
implementation of competent authority agreement or arbitration decision take 
precedence over the normal domestic law time limits that would otherwise apply 
to the provision of relief from double taxation.  For Hong Kong, most of its 
DTAs include provisions in the MAP Article which state that any agreement 
reached via MAP or implementation of an arbitration decision shall be 
implemented notwithstanding any time limits in the domestic laws of Hong 
Kong and the other DTA jurisdiction.  Section 50AAB(6) of the IRO also 
provides that a MAP solution shall be implemented notwithstanding any time 
limits under the IRO, whether by way of discharge or repayment of tax, 
allowance of tax credit or making of an assessment.  A taxpayer can rest assured 

 
 
14 
 
that, by presenting a case to the competent authority or referring any issue for 
arbitration under a DTA, the mere expiration of domestic time limits does not 
preclude the granting of relief. 
 
38. 
Where the MAP solution leads to additional tax to be paid by the 
taxpayer, the IRD’s normal practice is to require tax payment to be made within 
about 6 weeks after the date of issue of the assessment.  However, if the MAP 
solution results in a refund of the tax due or paid by the taxpayer, it is the IRD’s 
pledge to issue the refund within 10 working days after the date of issue of the 
revised assessment. 
 
 
MAP AND DOMESTIC REMEDIAL PROCESS 
 
Interaction between MAP and objection process under the IRO  
 
Concurrent avenues to MAP and objection  
 
39. 
The MAP Articles in Hong Kong’s DTAs provide taxpayers with an 
avenue for review in addition to the rights:  
 
(a)  
to object to an assessment under section 64(1) of the IRO; and  
 
(b)  
to dispute the amount of a tax credit under section 50(9A) of 
the IRO.  
 
40. 
A taxpayer can request MAP regardless of the remedies provided under 
the IRO.  The Commissioner will consider concurrently a case presented to him 
or her under the MAP Article and an objection lodged by the taxpayer under the 
IRO.   
 
Objection undetermined when competent authority agreement reached 
 
41. 
Where the taxpayer accepts the competent authority agreement reached 

 
 
15 
 
for an issue covered by his MAP request and his objection lodged for the issue 
remains undetermined, the taxpayer’s acceptance of the competent authority 
agreement will be regarded as a settlement agreement between the taxpayer and 
the Commissioner under section 64(3) of the IRO.  However, if the assessment 
objected by the taxpayer involves a number of issues, the settlement agreement 
will be limited to those issues resolved mutually by the competent authorities.  
The taxpayer may still seek remedy under the IRO in relation to the issues 
unresolved through the MAP. 
 
42. 
If the taxpayer does not accept the competent authority agreement, the 
competent authority of Hong Kong will close the case without implementing any 
agreement.  The Commissioner will proceed to determine the taxpayer’s 
objection under section 64(4) of the IRO. 
 
Objection determined before competent authority agreement reached  
 
43. 
Where the Commissioner determines to wholly allow the taxpayer’s 
objection, competent authority’s consideration via the MAP will cease since 
there will no longer be taxation that is not in accordance with the DTA. 
 
44. 
If the competent authorities have not agreed on an appropriate solution 
by the time the Commissioner determines the objection, the taxpayer has a right 
to appeal to Board of Review under section 66 of the IRO if dissatisfied with the 
determination.   
 
45. 
Once a decision of the Board of Review or an order of the courts has 
been made, the Commissioner will abide by that decision or order.  The 
subsequent endeavours of the competent authority of Hong Kong under a DTA 
will be limited to demonstrating to the competent authority of the other DTA 
jurisdiction that the taxation, consistent with the Board’s decision or the court’s 
order, is in line with the DTA and that relief should be provided by the other 
DTA jurisdiction. 
 
 

 
 
16 
 
Interaction between MAP and domestic remedial process in the other DTA 
jurisdiction 
 
46. 
Whether a MAP request can progress while a taxpayer’s objection, 
review and appeal rights are ongoing in the other DTA jurisdiction depends on 
whether the competent authority of that jurisdiction agrees to proceed with MAP 
negotiations concurrently.  
 
47. 
The successful exercise of objection, review and appeal rights in the 
other DTA jurisdiction may give rise to the result that there is no longer any 
taxation which is contrary to the DTA.  Under these circumstances, it would be 
inappropriate for the taxpayer to obtain any correlative relief in Hong Kong.  
 
48. 
Depending on the circumstances of each case, the Commissioner may 
consider providing correlative adjustment on the condition that:  
 
(a) 
the taxpayer and any non-resident associated enterprise have 
exhausted or rescinded objection, review and appeal rights in 
the other DTA jurisdiction; or 
 
(b) 
the taxpayer and any non-resident associated enterprise agree 
to advise the Commissioner should their objection, review and 
appeal rights be exercised in the other DTA jurisdiction.  
 
49. 
In relation to the situation outlined under paragraph 48(b), the issue of 
any revised assessment or the provision of a credit for foreign taxes paid will be 
deferred until such time as the objection, review and appeal rights in the other 
DTA jurisdiction have lapsed or are subsequently rescinded or exhausted. 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
17 
 
MISCELLANEOUS MATTERS 
 
Multilateral and multi-year application 
 
50. 
The competent authority of Hong Kong seeks to handle MAP cases in 
the most effective manner.  While the MAP Articles of Hong Kong’s DTAs 
require the competent authorities to consult with each other bilaterally, the 
competent authorities of each jurisdiction can be part of what are, in practice, 
multilateral MAP negotiations where: 
 
(a) 
every jurisdiction involved has a DTA providing for MAP with 
each other; 
 
(b) 
the taxpayer has presented separate and concurrent MAP 
requests under each relevant DTA; and 
 
(c) 
each jurisdiction has accepted the MAP request. 
 
In such cases, the competent authority of Hong Kong will seek to process the 
bilateral cases in a co-ordinated manner and make use of exchange of 
information powers where this will help resolve the cases efficiently. 
  
51. 
To avoid duplicative MAP requests and permit a more efficient use of 
competent authority resources, the competent authority of Hong Kong will allow 
a taxpayer to request a multiyear resolution via MAP with respect to a recurring 
issue, provided that for each of the relevant years, the facts and circumstances of 
the issue are the same and the MAP request is presented within the time limit 
specified in the MAP Article of the DTA.  Where more than one MAP request 
for the same issue over a number of years are received, the competent authority 
of Hong Kong will also seek to deal with all the requests in a co-ordinated 
manner. 
 
 
 
 

 
 
18 
 
Payment of tax during MAP process  
 
52. 
Hong Kong does not require tax to be paid as a condition for access to 
MAP.  A taxpayer who has presented a MAP request may apply to hold over 
the Hong Kong tax payable under section 71 of the IRO if a valid objection has 
been lodged under section 64 of the IRO.  Each request to hold over the 
payment of tax will be decided on its merits.  For details, please refer to 
Departmental Interpretation and Practice Notes No. 6.  
 
Penalties 
 
53. 
If the Commissioner considers it appropriate to do so having regard to 
a MAP solution, he or she may adjust any additional tax imposed under Part 14 
(which is in the nature of administrative penalty directly connected to tax liability) 
unless the Board of Review or the court has delivered a decision, opinion, 
determination or direction in respect of the assessment of the additional tax.  
Such adjustment does not apply to criminal penalties or other non-tax based 
administrative penalties. 
 
Advance pricing arrangement 
 
54. 
To minimise the need for MAP and reduce the risk of being subject to 
double taxation as a result of transfer pricing or profit reallocation adjustments, 
Hong Kong has implemented an advance pricing arrangement (APA) 
programme which allows to determine in advance an appropriate set of criteria 
for the determination of the transfer pricing for the controlled transactions on a 
bilateral or multilateral basis.  APAs concluded bilaterally or multilaterally 
with DTA jurisdictions provide an increased level of certainty in both 
jurisdictions, lessen the likelihood of double taxation and may proactively 
prevent transfer pricing disputes.  The IRD may consider roll-back of an APA 
to prior years subject to the time limits for amending tax assessment under the 
IRO or the relevant DTA, where the facts and circumstances in the prior years 
are the same as those for the APA.  The statutory provisions governing the 
making of APA are provided under Division 4 of Part 8AA of and Schedule 17H 

 
 
19 
 
to the IRO.  The administrative guidance on the APA program can be found in 
Departmental Interpretation and Practice Notes No. 48. 
 
MAP Profile 
 
55. 
More information about the application of MAP in Hong Kong can be 
found in the Hong Kong’s MAP Profile published on the OECD’s website. 
 
Contact information 
 
56. 
For any enquiries relating to this guidance, please contact the IRD at 
(852) 2594 5402 or taxtt@ird.gov.hk. 
