Avoidance of Double Taxation Agreements (“DTAs”) 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
IRAS e-Tax Guide 
 
Avoidance of Double Taxation Agreements (“DTAs”) 
 
(Fourth Edition) 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Avoidance of Double Taxation Agreements (“DTAs”) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Published by 
Inland Revenue Authority of Singapore 
 
 
 
 
Published on 30 Jan 2026 
 
First edition on 11 Oct 2017 
Second edition on 15 Jun 2018 
Third edition on 23 Oct 2021 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Disclaimers: IRAS shall not be responsible or held accountable in any way for any damage, loss or expense whatsoever, arising directly 
or indirectly from any inaccuracy or incompleteness in the Contents of this e-Tax Guide, or errors or omissions in the transmission of 
the Contents. IRAS shall not be responsible or held accountable in any way for any decision made or action taken by you or any third 
party in reliance upon the Contents in this e-Tax Guide. Except where specific contents carry legal force, this information aims to 
provide a better general understanding of taxpayers’ tax obligations and is not intended to comprehensively address all possible tax 
issues that may arise. While every effort has been made to ensure that this information is consistent with existing law and practice, 
should there be any changes, IRAS reserves the right to vary its position accordingly. 
 
 
© Inland Revenue Authority of Singapore 
 
All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means, including photocopying 
and recording without the written permission of the copyright holder, application for which should be addressed to the publisher. 
Such written permission must also be obtained before any part of this publication is stored in a retrieval system of any nature. 

Avoidance of Double Taxation Agreements (“DTAs”) 
 
 
 
Table of Contents 
 
                  Page 
 
1 
Aim ................................................................................................................... 1 
2 
At a glance ...................................................................................................... 1 
3 
Introduction ..................................................................................................... 2 
4 
Singapore’s DTA Policy ................................................................................. 4 
5 
Multilateral Convention to Implement the Tax Treaty Related Measures to 
Prevent Base Erosion and Profit Shifting..................................................... 5 
6 
Common DTA Provisions .............................................................................. 6 
7 
Mutual Agreement Procedure ...................................................................... 17 
8 
Arbitration ..................................................................................................... 26 
9 
Notes on Specific DTAs ............................................................................... 29 
10 Contact Information ..................................................................................... 29 
11 Updates and amendments ........................................................................... 29 
Annex A: Minimum information required when filing a MAP application ...... 30 
Annex B: Sample of letter of authorisation ....................................................... 31 

Avoidance of Double Taxation Agreements (“DTAs”) 
 
1 
 
1 
Aim  
 
1.1 
This e-Tax Guide provides information on  
 
• 
The interpretation and application of Singapore’s DTAs; and 
• 
The mutual agreement procedure (“MAP”) under Singapore’s DTAs. 
 
1.2 
This e-Tax Guide is relevant to you if you have cross-border transactions with 
or investments in a jurisdiction that has a DTA with Singapore. 
 
 
2 
At a glance 
 
2.1 
Singapore’s recent DTAs are largely based on the Organisation of Economic 
Co-operation and Development Model Tax Convention on Income and on 
Capital (“OECD MTC”), with some modifications. Reference may generally be 
made to the OECD’s commentary on the OECD MTC (“OECD Commentary”) 
(which may be updated or revised by the OECD from time to time) for 
information on the interpretation of the provisions of Singapore’s DTAs. 
However, it should be noted that there are some differences between 
Singapore’s DTAs and the OECD MTC. Singapore has reflected the main areas 
of differences in the “Non-OECD economies’ positions on the OECD Model Tax 
Convention” of the OECD MTC. 
 
2.2 
For various reasons, Singapore’s DTA partners may not always share the same 
interpretation of the DTA provisions as Singapore. Notwithstanding this, this e-
Tax Guide provides information on IRAS’ interpretation and application of key 
provisions of Singapore’s DTAs. 
 
2.3 
Taxpayers relying on the provisions of a DTA will generally need to prove that 
they are tax resident in Singapore or the other DTA jurisdiction by producing a 
certificate of residence.  
 
2.4 
If taxpayers encounter double taxation or believe that provisions in a DTA have 
not been applied correctly by a tax authority, they may apply for assistance from 
their tax authorities or IRAS, as the case may be, under the MAP article in the 
DTA to resolve the issue.  
 
 
 
 

Avoidance of Double Taxation Agreements (“DTAs”) 
2 
 
3 
Introduction  
 
3.1 
Tax rules differ from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. While some aspects of taxation 
may be universal or largely similar across different tax systems, there will 
inevitably also be significant differences. 
 
3.2 
For example, differences may be found in the following: 
 
• 
Definitions of what is income; 
• 
Definitions of tax base and the scope of taxation of non-residents; 
• 
Definitions of tax residency; 
• 
Computation rules for determining the amount of income; 
• 
Special rules for re-characterising or deeming facts or events; 
• 
Timing rules for the recognition of income or expenses; 
• 
Tax rates; 
• 
Tax incentives for economic development; 
• 
Special rules relating to evidence or documentation; and 
• 
Rules relating to appeals and dispute resolution. 
 
3.3 
Juridical double taxation results when the same income is being taxed twice – 
once in the jurisdiction where the income arises and another time in the 
jurisdiction where the income is received. Economic double taxation can arise 
when two jurisdictions tax the same economic transaction differently because 
of conflicting rules relating to the inclusion of income and deduction of expenses. 
 
3.4 
Since there will usually be differences in the tax rules of two jurisdictions, a 
taxpayer in jurisdiction A who invests in or trades with persons in jurisdiction B 
may be subject to taxation in both jurisdictions that may not be based on 
consistent principles. This may lead to double taxation that may not necessarily 
be relieved under the domestic laws of jurisdiction A. There is therefore a 
potential disincentive for the taxpayer in jurisdiction A to invest in or trade with 
persons in jurisdiction B. 
 
3.5 
Even if jurisdiction A may provide adequate relief from double taxation under 
its domestic laws, the absence of a DTA based on accepted international 
standards may create uncertainty for taxpayers in jurisdiction A and have the 
effect of discouraging inbound trade and investment into jurisdiction B from 
jurisdiction A. 
 
3.6 
From that perspective, for each contracting jurisdiction to a DTA, a DTA serves 
to:  
 
• 
Harmonise and rationalise international tax outcomes according to 
accepted international standards; and 
• 
Signal adherence to accepted international standards of taxation for the 
purpose of inbound trade and investment. 
 

Avoidance of Double Taxation Agreements (“DTAs”) 
3 
 
3.7 
DTAs (and other forms of tax treaties for the exchange of information) are also 
vital in facilitating co-operation between tax authorities in the form of exchange 
of information and resolution of disputes in accordance with accepted 
international standards.  
 
3.8 
Singapore has concluded two types of DTAs: (1) comprehensive DTAs which 
cover all types of income; and (2) limited DTAs which cover only income from 
shipping and/ or air transport activities. The full texts of Singapore’s DTAs are 
available on IRAS’ website (www.iras.gov.sg). 
 
3.9 
This e-Tax Guide provides information on the purpose of DTAs, as well as on 
the interpretation and application of provisions that are commonly found in 
Singapore’s DTAs. It also provides information on DTA benefits, as well as on 
how to avoid or resolve DTA-related disputes. 
 
 
 
 

Avoidance of Double Taxation Agreements (“DTAs”) 
4 
 
4 
Singapore’s DTA Policy  
 
4.1 
Singapore believes that trade and investment are important for the growth of 
the global economy. DTAs are important for promoting international trade and 
investment by improving transparency of information and certainty of tax 
positions. They are also essential for the elimination of double taxation that can 
arise from cross-border transactions, thereby reducing business costs.  
 
4.2 
DTAs serve the following important functions: 
 
• 
Harmonising international tax outcomes; 
• 
Encouraging foreign investments by providing certainty of tax treatment 
of cross border transactions; and 
• 
Creating a platform for dialogue and co-operation between tax 
authorities. 
 
4.3 
By entering into a DTA, we believe that both parties to the DTA have made a 
binding commitment in good faith to depart appropriately from domestic laws 
for the purpose of building stronger economic relations.  
 
We believe that benefits from DTAs go beyond taxation and the purpose of 
DTAs must also be considered in that light. At the same time, DTAs must not 
be abused in ways that were never intended by the contracting parties – DTAs 
are never intended to be used or applied to give benefit to artificial 
arrangements or structures with no commercial purpose. With the new 
preamble to be added to DTAs by the Multilateral Convention to Implement the 
Tax Treaty Related Measures to Prevent Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (see 
next Section), it is further emphasised that contracting parties to a DTA do not 
intend for the DTA to create opportunities for non-taxation or reduced taxation 
through tax evasion or avoidance. 
 
 
 
 

Avoidance of Double Taxation Agreements (“DTAs”) 
5 
 
5 
Multilateral Convention to Implement the Tax Treaty Related Measures to 
Prevent Base Erosion and Profit Shifting  
 
5.1 
On 7 June 2017, Singapore signed the Multilateral Convention to Implement 
the Tax Treaty Related Measures to Prevent Base Erosion and Profit Shifting, 
commonly referred to as the Multilateral Instrument (“MLI”). The MLI is a 
multilateral agreement intended to swiftly implement various treaty related 
proposals arising out of the OECD/G20 Base Erosion and Profit Shifting Project. 
As a multilateral agreement concluded between a large number of jurisdictions, 
the MLI has a mix of mandatory provisions and optional provisions (that 
signatory jurisdictions can make reservations against). Signatory jurisdictions 
may also choose which of their DTAs they wish to be modified by the MLI. A 
DTA is only modified by the MLI if both parties to the DTA choose for the DTA 
to be modified by the MLI. Likewise, the DTA is only modified under the MLI to 
the extent that it is agreed by both parties (i.e. to the extent that both parties do 
not make reservations on the optional provisions in the MLI). The modifications 
to a DTA by the MLI take effect only after both parties to the DTA ratify the MLI 
according to their respective domestic procedures. 
  
5.2 
For various reasons, including the fact that not all of Singapore’s DTA partners 
participated in the negotiation of the MLI, not all of Singapore’s DTAs will be 
amended by the MLI. Please refer to IRAS’ website (www.iras.gov.sg) for the 
DTAs that are amended by the MLI. 
 
5.3 
For the DTAs that will be amended by the MLI, the main changes made by the 
MLI are: 
 
(a) 
the inclusion of a new preamble which states that the purpose of the 
DTA is to eliminate double taxation without creating opportunities for 
non-taxation or reduced taxation through tax evasion or avoidance; 
 
(b) 
the inclusion of a “principal purpose test” provision which is an anti-
abuse rule to deny DTA benefits in abusive cases; and 
 
(c) 
the inclusion in some DTAs of provisions which allow taxpayers to 
request for mutual agreement procedure cases to be resolved through 
an arbitration process if the competent authorities are unable to reach 
an agreement within a specified time period.  
 
These changes only take effect after the MLI has been ratified by both 
Singapore and the DTA jurisdiction. The specific textual changes that will be 
made to the DTA will be provided through subsidiary legislation made under 
the Income Tax Act 1947 and will also be published on IRAS’ website 
(www.iras.gov.sg). 
 
 
 
 

Avoidance of Double Taxation Agreements (“DTAs”) 
6 
 
6 
Common DTA Provisions  
 
6.1 
A key function of DTAs is to allocate taxation rights between the two contracting 
jurisdictions. Under a DTA, the taxation rights over income derived by a resident 
of one jurisdiction (“Residence State”) from the other jurisdiction (“Source 
State”) can be allocated in any of the following ways: 
 
• 
Taxation rights are allocated to only one jurisdiction and the other 
jurisdiction foregoes the right to tax the income. Typically, the DTA will 
state that the income shall be taxable only in one jurisdiction; 
• 
Taxation rights are allocated to both jurisdictions but with limitation of 
taxation in the Source State to no more than a specified level. Typically, 
the DTA will state that the income may be taxed in one jurisdiction, and 
may also be taxed in the other jurisdiction but the tax shall not exceed a 
specified rate. The Residence State provides tax relief for the tax paid in 
the Source State (as specified in the DTA) to eliminate double taxation; 
and 
• 
Taxation rights are allocated to both jurisdictions without limitation. 
Typically, the DTA will state that the income may be taxed in one 
jurisdiction, and may also be taxed in the other jurisdiction. The 
Residence State provides tax relief for the tax paid in the Source State 
to eliminate double taxation. 
 
6.2 
While a jurisdiction is entitled to subject income arising from its territory to full 
taxation under its domestic laws, the presence of a DTA could limit the taxation 
of the income. There are non-fiscal reasons why a jurisdiction may agree to do 
so (e.g. to attract foreign investment).  
 
6.3 
In contrast, a jurisdiction generally does not limit the taxation of its residents 
under a DTA. However, the jurisdiction would be obliged under a DTA to 
eliminate any double taxation arising under the DTA by providing some form of 
tax relief to its residents for the foreign tax that had been paid in accordance 
with the DTA. 
 
6.4 
The provisions of a DTA are organised under various articles. As the specific 
provisions in each DTA may be different, this document only highlights 
briefly the general principles of the key articles of a typical DTA. Please always 
refer to the specific provisions of the relevant DTA in interpreting and 
applying the DTA. The following are the typical articles in a DTA. 
 
Persons Covered 
 
6.5 
The scope of Singapore’s DTAs is always limited to residents of Singapore and 
that of the DTA partner. Non-residents of both jurisdictions do not qualify for the 
treatment provided under the DTA. 
 
6.6 
In Singapore’s context, a Singapore Limited Liability Partnership (“LLP”) or 
Singapore Limited Partnership (“LP”) is not regarded as a resident of Singapore 

Avoidance of Double Taxation Agreements (“DTAs”) 
7 
 
since they are treated as transparent for tax purposes. Instead, the partners of 
the LLP or LP will qualify as a tax resident of Singapore if they meet the tax 
residency criteria under Singapore tax laws. Similarly, a trust in Singapore will 
not have a residency status in Singapore. Instead, the trustee of the trust, which 
is the person liable to tax for the income of the trust, will qualify as a tax resident 
of Singapore if it meets the tax residency criteria under Singapore tax laws. 
 
Taxes Covered 
 
6.7 
This article states that the provisions of the DTA shall apply to taxes on income 
and capital. In Singapore’s context, it is the income tax. Other taxes like GST, 
customs and excise duties are outside the scope of Singapore’s DTAs. 
 
6.8 
This article also provides that any identical or substantially similar taxes that 
are imposed by either contracting jurisdiction after the signature of the DTA 
may also be covered by the DTA. If you encounter any foreign tax that is 
identical or similar to the taxes covered by the DTA but is not stated in the DTA, 
you may write to IRAS for clarification. 
 
General Definitions 
 
6.9 
Various terms commonly used in the DTA are defined in this article. If a term is 
not defined in the DTA, it would normally assume, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the meaning that it has at that time under the domestic tax laws of the 
jurisdiction for the purposes of the taxes covered by the DTA. 
 
Resident 
 
6.10 This article defines the residents of each contracting jurisdiction who will be 
entitled to the DTA benefits. A person is a resident of a jurisdiction if he is liable 
to tax under the domestic tax law by reason of his domicile, residence, place of 
management or any other criterion of a similar nature. In Singapore’s context, 
a resident of Singapore is defined in Section 2 of the Income Tax Act. Please 
refer to the IRAS website (www.iras.gov.sg) for the eligibility criteria for tax 
residency in Singapore and the procedures for requesting a certificate of 
residence.  
 
6.11 When a person is a resident of both contracting jurisdictions based on the 
respective domestic rules, the DTA provides the “tie-breaker” rules for 
determining the tax residency of the person for the purpose of the DTA. 
 
6.12 In the case of individuals, the rules to be applied, in order of priority, are: 
 
a) 
In which jurisdiction does the individual have a permanent home 
available to him; 
b) 
To which jurisdiction are the individual’s personal and economic 
relations closer; 
c) 
In which jurisdiction does the individual have a habitual abode; and 
d) 
Of which jurisdiction is the individual a national. 

Avoidance of Double Taxation Agreements (“DTAs”) 
8 
 
If the above rules fail to determine the tax residency of the individual, the DTA 
will generally provide that the competent authorities1 will settle the question by 
mutual agreement.  
 
6.13 In the case of non-individuals, the person is deemed to be a resident only of 
the jurisdiction in which its place of effective management is situated. For an 
entity, the place of effective management is the place where the key 
management and commercial decisions that are necessary for the conduct of 
the entity’s business as a whole are in substance made. Generally, this would 
be similar to the test for residence for companies under the Income Tax Act 
1947, which is based on central management and control. In some of 
Singapore’s DTAs, an additional sentence has been included to allow the 
competent authorities to discuss the issue of tax residency if the place of 
effective management of the person cannot be determined.  
 
Permanent Establishment 
 
6.14 A permanent establishment means a fixed place of business through which the 
business of an enterprise is wholly or partly carried on, and normally includes 
a place of management, a branch, an office, a factory, a workshop and a place 
of extraction of natural resources, etc.  
 
6.15 The terms of the DTA may also provide that the existence of a permanent 
establishment will be determined by the existence or extent of certain specified 
activities in the State where the activities are carried out. Such activities include: 
 
• 
A building site or a construction, assembly or installation project that 
lasts more than a specified period; 
• 
Supervisory activities connected with a building site or a construction, 
assembly or installation project that lasts more than a specified period; 
• 
Services (including consultancy services) furnished by an enterprise 
through its employees that continue for more than a specified period; 
• 
The presence of a dependent agent (i.e. not an agent of independent 
status) who has, and habitually exercises, a general authority to 
negotiate and conclude contracts on behalf of an enterprise. 
• 
Work performed from a home or other informal location, where the 
enterprise used that location on a continuous basis for carrying on its 
business and the location had effectively been placed at the disposal of 
the enterprise. 
 
6.16 Some activities by themselves are not regarded as creating a permanent 
establishment, for example the use of facilities solely for the purpose of storage, 
display or delivery of goods. These specific exclusions from the concept of a 
permanent establishment are listed in the Permanent Establishment article of 
a DTA. In particular, a fixed place of business for the purpose of carrying on an 
 
1  
A competent authority is a person who has been appointed to perform a designated function for the 
purpose of the DTA. 
 

Avoidance of Double Taxation Agreements (“DTAs”) 
9 
 
activity (or a combination of activities) of a preparatory or auxiliary character (in 
relation to the business of the enterprise) is deemed not to be a permanent 
establishment. 
 
6.17 The concept of a permanent establishment is used mainly to determine whether 
there exists in a State a sufficient presence or nexus so as to provide the basis 
for the taxation, of the business profits of a non-resident enterprise, who is a 
resident of the Residence State in the State where the activities are carried out. 
If the non-resident enterprise has a permanent establishment in that State, 
business profits of the enterprise that are attributable to the permanent 
establishment would be taxable in that State. The remaining business profits of 
the enterprise that are not attributable to the permanent establishment would 
be taxable only in the Residence State. 
 
Income from Immovable Property 
 
6.18 Income from immovable property, such as rental income from real estate, is 
usually taxed in both the State where the property is situated and the Residence 
State of the recipient. In such circumstance, the Residence State will provide 
relief for the tax paid in the State where the property is situated. The term 
“immovable property” is defined in this article and it generally refers to the 
domestic law meaning for immovable property. 
 
Business Profits 
 
6.19 If an enterprise of a Residence State carries on business in a Source State, the 
profits derived from the business will not be subject to tax in the Source State 
unless the business is carried on through a permanent establishment in the 
Source State. If the business is carried on through a permanent establishment 
situated in the Source State, the Source State has the right to tax all profits 
attributable to the permanent establishment as if it were an independent 
enterprise (i.e. profits are to be calculated on an arm’s length basis). In arriving 
at the taxable profit, the enterprise is allowed to deduct expenses which are 
reasonably attributable to the permanent establishment, subject to the relevant 
deduction rules in the Source State.  
 
6.20 In some of Singapore’s older DTAs, the term “profits of an enterprise” is defined 
to exclude income from management activities and/ or personal services. This 
would mean that the Business Profits article will not apply to such income as 
the Business Profits article in these DTAs applies to “profits of an enterprise”. 
Such income will therefore have to be considered under the other provisions in 
the DTA2. For example, in the case of the Singapore-Pakistan DTA, the taxation 
 
2  
Such language can be found in Singapore’s DTAs with Australia, Pakistan, and Sweden. In the 
case of the Singapore-Australia DTA, the competent authorities of Singapore and Australia have 
reached a mutual agreement on 1 May 2018 to apply the relevant DTA provisions in the following 
manner from that date:  
(i) The exclusion from “profits of a Singapore enterprise” or “profits of an Australian enterprise” 
under Article 2(1)(k)(iii) only applies to income covered by Article 11; 

Avoidance of Double Taxation Agreements (“DTAs”) 
10 
 
of income from such services would be considered under Article 13 (Fees for 
technical services), Article 15 (Personal services) or Article 22 (Other income) 
of the DTA.  
 
Shipping and Air Transport 
 
6.21 This article generally provides for either full or partial exemption of tax in the 
State where the airline or shipping profits are derived by an enterprise of the 
Residence State. Such exemption or reduced taxation is applicable to profits 
derived from the operation of aircraft or ships in international traffic (which 
would include income from activities which are directly connected or ancillary 
to the operation of aircraft or ships in international transport). Hence, this article 
generally applies to operators of international transport that are residents of 
either contracting jurisdiction. 
 
Associated Enterprises 
 
6.22 Enterprises of the two jurisdictions that are related parties are required to deal 
with each other on an arm’s length basis. Please refer to IRAS’ e-Tax Guide 
entitled “Transfer Pricing Guidelines” for more details. 
 
6.23 In the event that one jurisdiction makes a transfer pricing adjustment3 in relation 
to a transaction or arrangement involving an enterprise of the other jurisdiction, 
the other jurisdiction is obliged to give a corresponding adjustment for the same 
transaction or arrangement in relation to its enterprise if it agrees that the 
transfer pricing adjustment is justified on an arm’s length basis. The competent 
authorities of both jurisdictions may consult together with a view to resolving 
the economic double taxation which may arise as a result of the transfer pricing 
adjustment. 
 
6.24 Notwithstanding the absence of the provision for making corresponding 
adjustments4 in some of Singapore’s DTAs, IRAS will accept a request for 
competent authority assistance under the MAP article in the DTA (please refer 
 
(ii) In the case of an individual deriving income from providing personal (including professional) 
services, whether those services are performed by that individual or his employees, Article 
11(1) would be the applicable article and consequently, a Contracting State would have the 
right to tax the income if the services are performed in that State;  
(iii) In the case of a non-individual (e.g. companies) deriving income from the provision of services 
through employees or other personnel engaged by the non-individual, the service income would 
be considered as profits of an enterprise and Articles 4 and 5 would be the applicable articles. 
Consequently, a Contracting State would have the right to tax the service income only if the 
provision of services constitutes a permanent establishment in that State under the provisions 
of Article 4; and 
(iv) Article 12(1) would apply to remuneration derived by an employee.  
3  
When related parties do not transact with each other at arm’s length prices, tax authorities may, for 
tax purposes, substitute the price of the transaction with one that would have been charged if the 
parties were unrelated. The adjustment to arrive at that price is known as a transfer pricing 
adjustment. 
4  
The provision which is equivalent to paragraph 2 of Article 9 of the OECD MTC. 

Avoidance of Double Taxation Agreements (“DTAs”) 
11 
 
to Section 7 below for more information on MAP). However, such a request will 
be subject to acceptance by the relevant foreign competent authority. 
 
Dividends 
 
6.25 Generally, from a DTA perspective, the source of dividends is in the jurisdiction 
where the company paying the dividends is resident. Typically, the Source 
State would agree under the DTA to limit the taxation of dividends arising from 
its jurisdiction, where the beneficial owner of the dividends is a resident of the 
other Contracting State. Any taxation by the Source State is typically levied 
through a withholding tax. 
 
6.26 In some DTAs, dividends may be exempt from tax in the Source State if they 
are paid to specified parties or paid under certain specified arrangements. 
Please refer to the specific DTAs for details.  
 
Interest 
 
6.27 Generally, from a DTA perspective, the source of interest is in the jurisdiction 
where the person paying the interest is resident (or where a permanent 
establishment or fixed base bearing such interest exists). Typically, the Source 
State would agree under the DTA to limit taxation of interest arising from its 
jurisdiction, where the beneficial owner of the interest is a resident of the other 
Contracting State. Any taxation by the Source State is typically levied through 
a withholding tax. 
 
6.28 The kind of payments that are regarded as interest for the purpose of this article 
would be defined in the DTA. In particular, payments under derivative contracts 
are not generally regarded as interest. Such payments could be considered 
under the “Business Profits” or “Other Income” articles, depending on the facts 
and circumstances of the case.  
 
6.29 In some DTAs, interest may be exempt from tax in the Source State if it is paid 
to a bank or a financial institution of the Residence State or other specified 
parties, or if it is paid under certain specified arrangements. Please refer to the 
specific DTAs for details. 
 
Royalties 
 
6.30 Generally, from a DTA perspective, the source of royalties is in the jurisdiction 
where the person paying the royalties is resident (or where a permanent 
establishment or fixed base bearing such royalties exists). Typically, the Source 
State would agree under the DTA to limit taxation of royalties arising from its 
jurisdiction, where the beneficial owner of the royalties is a resident of the other 
Contracting State. Any taxation by the Source State is typically levied through 
a withholding tax. 
 
6.31 The kind of payments that are regarded as royalties for the purpose of this 
article would be defined in the DTA. In particular, in some DTAs, payments for 

Avoidance of Double Taxation Agreements (“DTAs”) 
12 
 
the use of, or the right to use, industrial, commercial or scientific equipment 
(generally referred to as equipment leasing income) would be regarded as 
royalties for the purpose of the DTA. 
 
6.32 In some DTAs, royalties may be exempt from tax in the Source State if they are 
paid to specified parties, or if they are paid under certain specified 
arrangements. Please refer to the specific DTAs for details. 
 
Fees for Technical Services  
 
6.33 Some of Singapore’s DTAs include a provision allowing source taxation of fees 
earned from providing technical services. Such taxation would typically be in 
the form of a withholding tax. This provision would typically limit the withholding 
tax rate in the Source State to a specified tax rate. Typically, the withholding 
tax is not applicable if the technical services are provided through a permanent 
establishment in the Source State. Technical services covered by this provision 
and the scope of taxation would be defined in the DTA. Please refer to the 
specific DTAs for details.  
 
6.34 In general, Singapore would not propose to have such provisions in our DTAs 
since a withholding tax on the gross amount of fees paid does not take into 
account the costs in providing the services and is likely to lead to excessive 
taxation. Nonetheless, where a DTA provides for such withholding tax, 
businesses should consider the cost of such taxes when doing business in the 
relevant jurisdiction. 
 
Capital Gains 
 
6.35 This article deals with gains from the disposal or sale of capital assets such as 
immovable properties and shares. The right to tax gains arising from the sale 
of immovable property and gains from sale of shares are defined in this article. 
Generally, capital gains arising from immovable property and business property 
may be taxed in the State where the property is situated, whereas capital gains 
arising from shares shall be taxed only in the Residence State (this may be 
subject to certain exceptions). 
 
Independent Personal Services 
 
6.36 Generally, income of an individual from the provision of professional services 
or activities of an independent character may be taxed in the Source State if 
the services are provided through a fixed base in the Source State (the concept 
of a fixed base is similar to that of a permanent establishment) or are provided 
in the Source State for more than a specified period (this period is typically 
aligned to the corresponding period in the Permanent Establishment article for 
services rendered by enterprises). Examples of individuals rendering 
professional services include physicians, lawyers, engineers, architects, 
dentists and accountants. 
 
 

Avoidance of Double Taxation Agreements (“DTAs”) 
13 
 
Dependent Personal Services 
 
6.37 Generally, income of an individual from employment (other than pensions, 
director’s fees and remuneration for government services) may be taxed in the 
Source State if the employment is exercised in the Source State. However, 
where the employment is exercised in the Source State for less than a specified 
period (typically 183 days in any 12-month period), the employer is not a 
resident of the Source State, and the income is not paid or borne by a 
permanent establishment or fixed base of the employer in the Source State, 
then the income shall only be taxable in the Residence State of the individual.  
 
Pensions 
 
6.38 In respect of pensions and other similar remuneration, this article usually 
provides for either: 
 
a) 
The Residence State to have sole taxing right; or  
b) 
Both the Residence State and the Source State to have the right to tax 
the income. 
 
6.39 Some of Singapore’s DTAs provide that pensions and other similar 
remuneration paid under the social security system of a contracting jurisdiction 
shall be taxable only in the jurisdiction in which the pensions arose. 
 
Government Service 
 
6.40 This article provides that government employees who are working in a foreign 
jurisdiction would enjoy tax exemption in that jurisdiction on their remuneration 
paid by their government, subject to them meeting specified conditions. If the 
employee is a resident of the foreign jurisdiction and (i) is a national of that 
foreign jurisdiction; or (ii) did not become a resident of that foreign jurisdiction 
solely for the purpose of rendering the government duties, then his 
remuneration shall be taxable only in the foreign jurisdiction. The tax exemption 
in the foreign jurisdiction under the Government Service article is not applicable 
if the employer, while being government-owned, is carrying on a business. In 
such a case, the provisions of the Dependent Personal Services article would 
apply accordingly. 
 
Specific Articles for Certain Types of Income 
 
6.41 Normally, there are also separate articles in a DTA specifying the allocation of 
taxation rights for director’s fees, income derived by entertainers and 
sportspersons and income derived by students and business apprentices. 
  
Other Income/ Income not Expressly Mentioned 
 
6.42 This article covers items or sources of income not dealt with in the other articles 
of a DTA. The provisions of this article in Singapore’s DTAs may provide for 
Source State taxation, or Residence State taxation with certain exceptions 

Avoidance of Double Taxation Agreements (“DTAs”) 
14 
 
(please refer to the specific DTAs for details). Examples of such exceptions 
include trust distributions from Real Estate Investment Trusts (“REIT”) and 
withdrawals from Supplementary Retirement Scheme (“SRS”) accounts (unless 
they have been specifically covered under another article in the DTA5). 
 
Limitation of Relief (“LOR”) 
 
6.43 Some of Singapore’s DTAs (mostly older DTAs or renegotiated DTAs based on 
an older DTA) contain an LOR provision which limits the benefits of the DTA for 
a Singapore resident to foreign-sourced income that is received in Singapore. 
As Singapore’s tax policies have long changed, we consider such provisions to 
be obsolete and counter-productive for cross-border investment. The effect of 
such provisions is to require Singapore investors to repatriate profits and 
returns from their foreign investments, regardless of the economic logic in doing 
so. We consider these effects to be undesirable for both Singapore and the 
DTA partner (being the investment destination) and will continue to ask for the 
removal of such provisions whenever possible. 
 
6.44 In DTAs where an LOR provision exists, it should be noted that the provision 
only applies to income that is regarded as foreign-sourced under Singapore law. 
Under the Income Tax Act 1947, income derived from a business carried on in 
Singapore is regarded as Singapore-sourced, even if the income may be paid 
by a person outside Singapore or is paid in respect of work done outside 
Singapore. The taxation of such business income in Singapore is not 
dependent on the receipt of the income in Singapore and the LOR provision 
does not apply to such income. 
 
Elimination of Double Taxation 
 
6.45 Within the framework of co-operation under a DTA, the Residence State would 
be obliged to relieve any double taxation on its residents resulting from taxation 
imposed by the Source State in accordance with the DTA. Usually, a Residence 
State would do so under its domestic law and may either give tax credits to its 
residents for the foreign tax paid, or exempt the foreign-sourced income from 
tax.  
 
6.46 Under Singapore’s DTAs, Singapore is typically obliged to relieve double 
taxation by providing tax credits (including underlying tax credits6 in the case of 
foreign-sourced dividends) for foreign tax paid by taxpayers in the other DTA 
jurisdiction in accordance with the provisions of the relevant DTA. Tax credits 
 
5  
For example, REIT distributions are specifically covered under the dividends article in the 
Singapore-Spain DTA, Singapore-UK DTA and Singapore-Russia DTA (Protocol signed on 17 Nov 
2015) while the dividends article in the Singapore-Germany DTA covers distributions from an 
investment trust, which would cover a REIT. 
6  
Underlying tax credit is given in respect of the tax paid by the company paying out the dividend on 
its profits out of which the dividend is paid to its shareholders. 
 

Avoidance of Double Taxation Agreements (“DTAs”) 
15 
 
to relieve double taxation will be provided to Singapore tax residents 7 
regardless of whether the income taxed in Singapore is treated as Singapore-
sourced or foreign-sourced income under the Income Tax Act, as long as the 
foreign tax is paid in accordance with the provisions of the DTA. As an 
alternative under the Income Tax Act 1947, taxpayers may also claim foreign-
sourced income exemption (and avoid the need to claim any tax credits in 
respect of the foreign-sourced income), subject to meeting the conditions for 
exemption under the Income Tax Act 1947. 
 
Mutual Agreement Procedure 
 
6.47 This is described in greater detail in Section 7 below.  
 
6.48 Mandatory binding arbitration provisions are included in some of Singapore’s 
DTAs8, following bilateral discussions with our DTA partners or where the DTA 
is modified by the MLI to include the mandatory binding arbitration provisions 
in Part VI of the MLI. Please refer to Section 5 above for more information on 
the MLI. 
 
Exchange of Information 
 
6.49 This article allows treaty partners to exchange information for tax purposes and 
the exchange is generally not limited to the taxes or persons covered by the 
DTA. Please refer to IRAS’ website (www.iras.gov.sg) for more details on this 
matter. 
 
Entitlement to Treaty Benefits 
 
6.50 This provision includes a Principal Purpose Test (“PPT”) which seeks to deny 
benefits provided under the DTA in abusive cases where it is reasonable to 
conclude that the principal purpose or one of the principal purposes of the 
arrangement or transaction in question is to obtain the benefits under the DTA 
in a manner that would not be in accordance with the object and purpose of the 
relevant DTA provisions.  
 
6.51 The principal purpose of an arrangement or transaction is a question of fact and 
needs to be determined by carrying out an objective analysis of the aims and 
objects of all persons involved in the arrangement or transaction, taking into 
account all facts and circumstances surrounding the arrangement or 
transaction. Based on such objective analysis, it must be reasonable to 
conclude that one of the principal purposes was to obtain the benefits of the 
DTA in an improper and abusive manner before the PPT may be invoked to 
deny the DTA benefits. The principal purposes of an arrangement or 
 
7  
Non-residents with permanent establishments (e.g. branches) in Singapore are not entitled to tax 
credits since they are not residents of Singapore. The taxpayer may be able to claim tax credits in 
the jurisdiction of which it is a tax resident. 
8  Details of Singapore’s DTAs and mandatory binding arbitration provisions are available at 
www.iras.gov.sg. 
 

Avoidance of Double Taxation Agreements (“DTAs”) 
16 
 
transaction would not be determined just by reviewing the effects of the 
arrangement or transaction but should also consider all relevant facts and 
circumstances concerning the arrangement or transaction. Where the 
arrangement is connected with a core commercial activity and its form is not 
contrived, it would not be reasonable to conclude that one of the principal 
purposes of the arrangement was to obtain a DTA benefit. 
 
 
 

Avoidance of Double Taxation Agreements (“DTAs”) 
17 
 
7 
Mutual Agreement Procedure 
 
7.1 
Where two or more tax authorities take different positions in applying the 
provisions of a DTA, it could result in taxation not in accordance with the 
provisions of the DTA for the taxpayer.  
 
7.2 
When a Singapore tax resident taxpayer considers that the actions of the tax 
authority(ies) may result in taxation not in accordance with the provisions of the 
relevant DTA, it can choose to resolve the issue through: 
 
• 
Seeking legal remedies in the jurisdiction in which tax was imposed in a 
manner that the taxpayer assesses is not in accordance with the 
applicable DTA; and/ or 
• 
Requesting IRAS to resolve the issue through the Mutual Agreement 
Procedure (“MAP”). 
 
What is MAP?  
 
7.3 
MAP is a dispute resolution facility provided under the MAP article in 
Singapore’s DTAs9. It is a facility through which IRAS and the relevant foreign 
competent authority resolve disputes regarding the application of the DTA. 
Usually, a MAP is entered into between two competent authorities but it is 
possible for IRAS to enter into a multilateral MAP involving three or more 
competent authorities. MAP provides an amicable way for IRAS and the 
relevant foreign competent authority to agree on the application of the DTA with 
a view to resolve taxation that is not in accordance with the provisions of the 
DTA. Where the agreed outcome between IRAS and the relevant foreign 
competent authority is accepted by the relevant taxpayer(s), it is binding on the 
relevant parties. 
 
7.4 
The following paragraphs set out the process, expectations and compliance 
rules relating to the application for IRAS’ assistance under the MAP article in 
respect of non-transfer pricing issues. For issues relating to transfer pricing, 
please refer to the IRAS e-Tax Guide entitled “Transfer Pricing Guidelines”. 
 
Who can apply for MAP? 
 
7.5 
MAP is available to: 
 
• 
Taxpayers that are Singapore tax residents; and 
• 
Taxpayers who are not Singapore tax residents but have a branch in 
Singapore. However, such applications are to be made by the taxpayers 
in the jurisdiction in which they are tax residents and with which 
Singapore has a DTA.  
 
 
 
9  Details of Singapore’s DTAs and MAP provisions are available at www.iras.gov.sg. 
 

Avoidance of Double Taxation Agreements (“DTAs”) 
18 
 
Example 
 
A foreign company can apply to the competent authority of the jurisdiction 
in which it is a tax resident for a MAP for its branch operating in Singapore. 
The branch has to alert IRAS of the application. 
 
In the case of an overseas branch of a Singapore tax resident company, 
that Singapore company can apply to IRAS for a MAP concerning its 
overseas branch’s tax affairs in a DTA jurisdiction. 
 
 
When to apply for MAP? 
 
7.6 
Taxpayers should only initiate a MAP application when taxation not in 
accordance with the provisions of the DTA has occurred or is certain or highly 
probable. Double taxation should not be just a possibility, such as the mere 
occurrence of audit or examinations. Taxpayers may seek resolution on issues 
that recur over multiple tax years, subject to the time limits provided in the 
relevant DTA.  
 
7.7 
MAP should be initiated within the time limit specified (e.g. three years) in the 
MAP article of the relevant DTA. Failure to do so will result in the competent 
authorities rejecting the MAP request. Depending on the relevant provision in 
the MAP article and the manner in which the tax is levied, the time limit is 
determined, for example, with reference to the date of the notice of assessment 
issued to the taxpayer or the date of the tax authority’s official request for 
withholding tax payment (in the absence of a notice of assessment). 
 
7.8 
Taxpayers must understand that the MAP process is time-consuming and 
resource intensive for themselves as well as IRAS. Therefore, taxpayers should 
evaluate their own situations and apply for MAP only if: 
 
• 
The incidence of double taxation is certain or highly probable for the 
financial years covered by the MAP application; 
• 
They have a robust basis and sufficient documentation to justify their 
claim that the provision of the DTA has been incorrectly applied;  
• 
They have the necessary resources to support the MAP process; and  
• 
They have evaluated the suitability of a MAP route by conducting an in-
depth cost-benefit analysis for their tax situations.  
 
7.9 
Taxpayers would be able to access MAP even if they have accepted/decided 
to accept a tax settlement with IRAS or a foreign tax authority. That said, 
taxpayers must also recognise that it could be challenging for IRAS and the 
foreign competent authority to negotiate and come to an agreement on a 
position that deviates from the tax settlement outcome that was already 
accepted by the taxpayer(s) involved. 
 
 

Avoidance of Double Taxation Agreements (“DTAs”) 
19 
 
What happens after a MAP application is submitted? 
 
7.10 IRAS may reject a MAP application in certain circumstances, such as the 
application is not made within the time limit specified in the MAP Article of the 
relevant DTA. If the MAP application is rejected, IRAS may explain the reasons 
to the taxpayer and the taxpayer may seek alternative remedies under the 
relevant domestic tax law. 
 
What are the obligations of taxpayers during the MAP process? 
 
7.11 The MAP negotiation is between the competent authorities and so, taxpayers 
do not participate in or attend as observers at the negotiations unless they are 
called upon to make any clarification. 
 
7.12 The success of the MAP process requires co-operation and commitment from 
taxpayers. Taxpayers should therefore: 
 
• 
Act in good faith throughout the process; 
• 
Comply with all the requirements pertaining to the MAP application 
process;  
• 
Provide access to all relevant documentation; 
• 
Be forthcoming in providing complete and reliable information and good 
quality analysis relating to the MAP applications; 
• 
Adhere to all the stipulated timelines when providing any clarification, 
information and analysis that may be requested by IRAS and the 
relevant foreign competent authorities;  
• 
Update IRAS on all information that they have provided to or received 
from the relevant foreign competent authorities on a timely basis; and 
• 
Provide the same set of information to IRAS and the relevant foreign 
competent authorities. 
 
7.13 The lack of taxpayers’ cooperation may result in: 
 
• 
Their applications being rejected; 
• 
The MAP process being discontinued; or  
• 
No consensus being reached between IRAS and the relevant foreign 
competent authorities.  
 
In such instances, taxpayers will have to rely on other remedies to eliminate 
double taxation under the relevant domestic tax law. 
 
 
 

Avoidance of Double Taxation Agreements (“DTAs”) 
20 
 
7.14 The success of the MAP process also depends on the agreement between 
IRAS and the relevant foreign competent authorities. Taxpayers should not 
assume that IRAS would always be able to reach agreement for all MAP cases. 
There may be valid constraints such as: 
 
• 
The lack of co-operation from taxpayers, as mentioned above;  
• 
The tax adjustment cannot be varied due to domestic tax law or the 
adjustment has already been finalised through the domestic tax appeal 
process or litigation. 
 
7.15 MAP does not deprive taxpayers of other remedies available under their 
respective domestic tax law. Taxpayers should inform IRAS and the relevant 
foreign competent authority if the matter is adjudicated through any legal or 
judicial proceedings while the MAP process is still ongoing. The competent 
authorities will discuss and decide if the MAP process should continue, cease 
or be suspended. Where the matter has been subjected to litigation and 
determination by the Singapore tribunals and courts, IRAS is unlikely to depart 
from the determination of the Singapore tribunals and courts. 
 
7.16 The MAP mechanism allows IRAS and the other competent authority to resolve 
disputes regarding the application of the DTA and is independent from the legal 
remedies available under the domestic law of both jurisdictions. However, to 
avoid duplication of efforts, IRAS will discuss with the other competent authority 
whether the MAP process should be suspended while the case is undergoing 
domestic legal remedies (see paragraph 7.15). 
 
As you will be expected to commit resources to support the MAP process, you 
are advised to evaluate your situation and consider whether to apply for a MAP, 
pursue domestic legal remedies or both. 
 
If you decide to apply for a MAP, you can choose between these two options: 
 
• 
If you are initiating or have initiated domestic legal remedies concurrently, 
you can submit a MAP application within the time limit specified in the 
MAP Article of the DTA and concurrently inform IRAS to defer 
examination of the MAP application until further notification from you. 
This is known as a protective MAP application (see paragraph 7.34); or  
 
• 
If you are still considering whether to pursue domestic legal remedies, 
you can submit a MAP application within the time limit specified in the 
MAP Article of the DTA to commence the MAP process described in 
paragraph 7.23. During the MAP process, should you decide to proceed 
with domestic legal remedies, you are to inform IRAS and the two 
competent authorities will decide if the MAP process should be 
suspended. 
 
 
 

Avoidance of Double Taxation Agreements (“DTAs”) 
21 
 
7.17 Taxpayers are not obliged to accept the outcome agreed between the 
competent authorities. They may withdraw the application, terminate the 
process or reject the agreed outcome. However, as the MAP process may 
demand substantial investment in time and resources from the taxpayers and 
competent authorities, taxpayers should not terminate the process unless there 
are valid reasons for doing so. 
 
When may the MAP process be discontinued? 
 
7.18 The lack of co-operation during any part of the MAP process may result in IRAS 
discontinuing the MAP process. 
  
7.19 The table below lists some examples where IRAS may discontinue the MAP: 
 
No. Examples 
When IRAS may 
discontinue the MAP 
process 
1 
Insufficient support during MAP process 
IRAS and the taxpayer agreed on the 
specified timeline by which the taxpayer is 
to submit the information required by 
IRAS.  
 
If the taxpayer fails to provide the 
information by the timeline and it remains 
outstanding for an extended period, IRAS 
will consider that the taxpayer has 
withdrawn from the MAP process. 
 
When taxpayer fails to 
provide the information 
within 3 months after the 
agreed timeline. 
2 
Failure to provide complete information 
The taxpayer should provide any relevant 
and material information that may affect 
the outcome of the MAP to IRAS on a 
timely basis. 
 
If the taxpayer fails to provide any material 
information that could have affected the 
outcome of the MAP, IRAS will consider 
discontinuing the MAP process. 
 
When it is found that the 
taxpayer has not 
provided such material 
information. 
 
 
7.20 Where a MAP process has been discontinued under any of the above situations 
or has been withdrawn by the taxpayer, and the taxpayer subsequently wishes 
to resume the MAP process, IRAS will consider the request afresh and assess 
the merits of the request, including whether the time limit stipulated in the DTA 
is met on the day the taxpayer submits all relevant information and details to 
resume the MAP process.  
 

Avoidance of Double Taxation Agreements (“DTAs”) 
22 
 
7.21 IRAS may revoke or cancel a MAP agreement, even retroactively, in the case 
of fraud or misrepresentation of information during a MAP process, or when a 
taxpayer fails to comply with the terms and conditions of the MAP agreement.  
 
7.22 Before IRAS discontinues a MAP process or cancels or revokes a MAP 
agreement, it will notify the relevant foreign competent authorities of its intention 
and the reasons for such action. 
 
How to apply for MAP? 
 
7.23 If taxpayers intend to apply for MAP, they should observe the following four-
step MAP process: 
 
Four-step MAP process: 
 
 
 
 
Step 4 
 
 
Step 3 
 
Implementation 
 
 
 
Review & 
negotiation 
 
Step 2 
Step 1 
 
Evaluation 
 
MAP application 
Taxpayer submits 
MAP application 
to IRAS within the 
time limit 
specified in the 
MAP article of the 
DTA.  
 
IRAS evaluates 
taxpayer’s MAP 
application and may 
contact taxpayer for 
more information. 
Where the 
application is 
accepted, an 
acceptance letter 
will be issued within 
one month from the 
date of receipt of all 
the required 
information. 
IRAS informs 
taxpayer of the 
MAP outcome 
within one month 
from reaching 
agreement by the 
competent 
authorities. 
Taxpayer and 
IRAS implement 
the MAP 
outcome. 
 
Step 1 – MAP application 
 
7.24 Once the MAP route is decided on, the taxpayer should proceed to submit its 
MAP application to IRAS within the time limit specified in the MAP article of the 
relevant DTA. There is no prescribed application form to be completed. Any 
MAP application should be made in a letter in soft copy only and include all the 
details and documentation based on the suggested list provided in Annex A.  
 
 
 
 

Avoidance of Double Taxation Agreements (“DTAs”) 
23 
 
7.25 The MAP application letter should be addressed to: 
  
The Competent Authority  
International Tax and Relations Division 
Inland Revenue Authority of Singapore 
55 Newton Road 
Revenue House 
Singapore 307987 
 
The MAP application can be submitted electronically to the email addresses 
provided in the list of Singapore’s competent authorities available on IRAS’ 
website (www.iras.gov.sg). 
 
7.26 IRAS does not impose a fee for MAP application. 
 
Step 2 – Evaluation 
 
7.27 IRAS will review and evaluate the taxpayer’s MAP application. IRAS may seek 
clarification or further information from the taxpayer, hold discussions with the 
taxpayer or conduct site visits to the taxpayer’s premises which include 
interviewing the taxpayer’s key personnel. 
 
7.28 IRAS will notify the relevant foreign competent authority of the MAP application 
following the MAP process under the MAP Statistics Reporting Framework 10 
and where applicable, the arbitration provisions in the relevant DTA. If IRAS 
accepts the application, it will issue letters of acceptance to the taxpayer and 
the relevant foreign competent authority within one month from the date of 
receipt of all required information. If IRAS rejects the application, it will notify 
the taxpayer and the relevant foreign competent authority in writing with 
reasons. 
 
Step 3 – Review and negotiation 
 
7.29 Upon acceptance of the MAP application, IRAS will proceed to discuss the MAP 
case with the foreign competent authority with a view to resolve any taxation 
which is not in accordance with the provisions of the DTA.  
 
7.30 IRAS will update the taxpayer on the progress and the outcome of the 
competent authorities’ negotiations. In general, IRAS aims to resolve a MAP 
case within 24 months from receiving the taxpayer’s complete application. 
 
Step 4 – Implementation 
 
7.31 When an outcome is reached between IRAS and the relevant foreign 
competent authority, IRAS will write to inform the taxpayer within one month of 
 
10  The framework is provided under the Inclusive Framework on the OECD/G20 Base Erosion and 
Profit Shifting (“BEPS”) - Action 14 (Making Dispute Resolution Mechanisms More Effective). 
 

Avoidance of Double Taxation Agreements (“DTAs”) 
24 
 
reaching agreement and advise the taxpayer on the next course of action. The 
taxpayer will have to decide whether the agreed outcome is acceptable.  
 
7.32 IRAS will not implement the agreed outcome until the taxpayer has accepted it 
and after the exchange of confirmation and closing letters between IRAS and 
the relevant foreign competent authority. After the taxpayer accepts the agreed 
outcome, IRAS and the relevant foreign competent authority can implement the 
agreement in a timely manner in accordance with domestic procedures. 
 
7.33 If any interest or penalties have been imposed in a jurisdiction in connection 
with the taxation imposed that is the subject of the MAP, the MAP agreement 
may address whether any refund of such interest or penalties should 
appropriately be made. 
 
Protective MAP application 
 
7.34 A protective MAP application is a MAP application submitted by a taxpayer in 
order to ensure that the application is made within the time limit specified in the 
MAP article of the relevant DTA but the taxpayer indicates to IRAS or agreed 
with IRAS that the application should not be examined until further notification 
is received from the taxpayer to do so. A protective MAP application protects 
the taxpayer against missing the time limit as it pursues other courses of action, 
such as domestic legal remedies. 
 
7.35 To apply for a protective MAP application, the taxpayer must: 
 
(a) 
Submit the application within the time limit specified in the MAP article 
of the relevant DTA; 
 
(b) 
Provide the details listed in Annex A; and 
 
(c) 
Indicate clearly that IRAS should defer examination of the MAP 
application until further notification from the taxpayer; and 
 
(d) 
Provide the reasons for making the protective MAP application. 
 
7.36 Upon accepting the protective MAP application, IRAS will notify the relevant 
foreign competent authority accordingly. At this point, IRAS will defer 
examination of the protective MAP application, including whether or not the 
MAP application is justified until further notification from the taxpayer. 
 
7.37 When the taxpayer notifies IRAS that the protective MAP application should 
now be examined (e.g. when the domestic legal remedies have been 
completed or withdrawn), the taxpayer must provide an update on the outcome 
of the courses of action(s) that it has taken since the submission of the 
protective MAP application. This will allow IRAS to consider the MAP 
application and to commence the MAP process described in paragraph 7.23. 
 

Avoidance of Double Taxation Agreements (“DTAs”) 
25 
 
7.38 Should the taxpayer decide to withdraw the protective MAP application (e.g. 
the taxpayer has accepted the resolution of the issues through the domestic 
legal remedies), it must notify IRAS immediately. IRAS will notify the relevant 
foreign competent authority accordingly. 
 
Other compliance matters 
 
7.39 Taxpayers who have appointed tax agents or other representatives to act on 
their behalf on matters relating to their MAP application are required to provide 
IRAS with a letter of authorisation (“LOA”). The LOA is to enable IRAS to 
correspond and discuss with the appointed tax agents and representatives on 
the matters relating to the application. A sample of an LOA is in Annex B. 
 
7.40 IRAS does not accept tax agents’ requests to initiate MAP discussion for clients 
who wish to preserve anonymity. Taxpayers should therefore engage IRAS 
without masking their identity if they are serious about applying for MAP. 
 
7.41 All information obtained during the MAP process is protected by the 
confidentiality provisions in the Income Tax Act 1947 and the relevant DTA. 
 
7.42 IRAS is not precluded from conducting an audit on the taxpayer if there is non-
compliance with Singapore tax law. 
 
 
 
 

Avoidance of Double Taxation Agreements (“DTAs”) 
26 
 
8 
Arbitration 
 
8.1 
Arbitration offers a recourse to resolve issues that have reached stalemate in 
MAP discussion.11 
 
8.2 
Under the arbitration provisions in the relevant DTA, where IRAS and the 
relevant foreign competent authority are unable to resolve the dispute under a 
MAP within a stipulated period (generally two or three years from the “start date” 
of a MAP case) or a period agreed between the competent authorities which is 
communicated to the taxpayer, the taxpayer may request in writing for any 
unresolved issues to be submitted to an arbitration panel. 
 
8.3 
The arbitration panel is required to render a decision within a specified time 
period. Typically, Singapore’s arbitration clauses provide for the panel’s 
decision to be final and binding on the competent authorities, unless the 
taxpayer chooses to disagree with the decision, or the taxpayer chooses to 
pursue other domestic recourse in Singapore or in the foreign jurisdiction to 
resolve the dispute. In addition, in some of our DTAs, there is a clause which 
provides that the arbitration panel’s decision is not binding on the competent 
authorities and shall not be implemented if the competent authorities agree on 
a different resolution of all unresolved issues within three calendar months after 
the arbitration panel’s decision has been delivered to them. Arbitration thus 
provides certainty to taxpayers and helps to resolve cross-border disputes in a 
more timely manner. 
 
8.4 
The following paragraphs outline the application process and rules relating to 
arbitration. 
 
Who can apply for Arbitration? 
 
8.5 
Taxpayers may submit their request in writing for a MAP case to be submitted 
for arbitration if all the following criteria are met: 
 
• 
The mandatory binding arbitration provisions have taken effect with 
respect to the MAP case12. 
• 
The competent authorities are unable to reach an agreement to resolve 
all the issues with respect to the MAP case within the time specified in 
 
11  Singapore opted for the arbitration provisions to be included in the Singapore DTAs when she signed 
the Multilateral Convention to Implement Tax Treaty Related Measures to Prevent Base Erosion and 
Profit Shifting (“MLI”). The arbitration provisions will apply if our DTA partners similarly adopt the 
same arbitration provisions. Arbitration provisions may also be included in the Singapore DTAs 
through bilateral discussion with our DTA partners. Details are available at www.iras.gov.sg. 
 
12 The mandatory binding arbitration provisions shall have effect with respect to the MAP case 
presented to the competent authority on or after the latest date on which the MLI enters into force 
for Singapore and its DTA partner. With respect to the MAP case presented to the competent 
authority prior to the latest date on which the MLI enters into force for Singapore and its DTA partner, 
Singapore has reserved the right for the case to be eligible for arbitration only to the extent that the 
two competent authorities agree that the case can be submitted for arbitration. 
 

Avoidance of Double Taxation Agreements (“DTAs”) 
27 
 
the DTA and there was no prior agreement between the competent 
authorities to extend the period for the specific MAP case. Where the 
competent authorities have reached an agreement on a different period, 
the taxpayer will be informed accordingly13. 
• 
The unresolved issues are not excluded from the arbitration provisions, 
by virtue of the reservations made by Singapore or the DTA partner 
under Article 28(2)(a) of the MLI14, or the reservations specified in the 
DTA. 
• 
A decision on the unresolved issues arising from the MAP case has not 
already been rendered by a court or administrative tribunal of Singapore 
or the DTA partner15. 
 
How to apply for Arbitration? 
 
8.6 
Taxpayers must submit their request in writing to the competent authority of the 
contracting jurisdiction of residence. The request must contain sufficient 
information to identify the MAP case. Please refer to the relevant Competent 
Authority Agreement (“CAA”) on Arbitration for more information. 
 
8.7 
Any request for arbitration to the competent authority of Singapore should be 
addressed to: 
  
The Competent Authority  
International Tax and Relations Division 
Inland Revenue Authority of Singapore 
55 Newton Road 
Revenue House 
Singapore 307987 
 
13  The time period may also be extended under Articles 19(2) and (3) of the MLI. 
 
14  Singapore has made the following reservations under Article 28(2)(a) of the MLI to exclude the 
following cases from the scope of arbitration: 
 
a) any case involving the application of Singapore’s general anti-avoidance rules contained in 
Section 33 of the Income Tax Act 1947, case law or juridical doctrines, and any subsequent 
provisions that replace, amend or update these anti-avoidance rules; and 
 
b) where Singapore’s DTA partner has made a reservation with reference to its domestic law 
provisions, any case that involves the application of Singapore’s domestic law, or any 
subsequent provisions which replace, amend or update those provisions, which are analogous 
to those domestic law provisions of the DTA partner. The competent authority of Singapore will 
consult with the competent authority of its DTA partner in order to specify any such analogous 
provisions in Singapore’s domestic law in the agreement concluded between the two competent 
authorities (see Competent Authority Agreement on Arbitration). 
 
The reservations made by Singapore or its DTA partner under Article 28(2)(a) of the MLI, or the 
reservations specified in the DTA, will also be detailed in the relevant Competent Authority 
Agreement on Arbitration. 
 
15  If such a decision is subsequently rendered before the arbitration panel delivers its decision, the 
arbitration process will be terminated. 

Avoidance of Double Taxation Agreements (“DTAs”) 
28 
 
 
The request for arbitration can be submitted electronically to the email 
addresses provided in the list of Singapore’s competent authorities available on 
IRAS’ website (www.iras.gov.sg). 
 
Arbitration Process 
 
8.8 
The CAA will contain information on the arbitration process. There are two types 
of arbitration processes, namely “final offer” and “independent opinion”. 
 
8.9 
Singapore has adopted the “final offer” arbitration process under the MLI, which 
is the default arbitration process. Hence, DTAs which contain arbitration 
provisions would generally follow the “final offer” arbitration process. 
 
8.10 The two types of arbitration processes are briefly explained below: 
 
• 
Final offer – The competent authorities of Singapore and its DTA partner 
will each submit to the arbitration panel a proposed resolution. The 
arbitration panel will select one of the proposed resolutions as its final 
decision. 
 
• 
Independent opinion – The arbitration panel will consider the information 
submitted by the competent authorities and the relevant sources of law, 
to arrive at its final decision. 
 
CAA on Arbitration 
 
8.11 The competent authorities of Singapore and its DTA partner are required to 
conclude a CAA to settle the mode of application of the mandatory binding 
arbitration provisions. Broadly, the CAA will contain the following information: 
 
• 
how the request for submission of a case to arbitration is to be made; 
• 
minimum information necessary to undertake substantive consideration 
of the case; 
• 
appointment of arbitrators; 
• 
arbitration process; 
• 
communication of information and confidentiality; 
• 
operating procedures; 
• 
costs; 
• 
failure to communicate the decision within the required period; 
• 
final decision; 
• 
implementing the arbitration decision; 
• 
entry into effect of the mandatory binding arbitration provisions; and 
• 
cases that are excluded from the scope of arbitration. 
 
8.12 The concluded CAAs will be published as an Annex to the DTAs on IRAS’ 
website (www.iras.gov.sg). 
 

Avoidance of Double Taxation Agreements (“DTAs”) 
29 
 
9 
Notes on Specific DTAs  
 
9.1 
In the course of MAP discussions, IRAS may agree on particular interpretations 
or applications of DTA provisions with foreign competent authorities. In order to 
provide greater transparency and clarity to taxpayers, IRAS will assess whether 
it is appropriate to provide guidance arising from such discussions. 
 
 
10 
Contact Information  
 
10.1 If you have any enquiries or need clarification on this document, please call 
IRAS at 1800 356 8622 (for companies) or 1800 356 8300 (for individuals). 
 
 
11 
Updates and amendments  
 
 
Date of amendment Amendments made 
1 
15 June 2018 
Updated Section 6 on common DTA provisions to 
include a footnote 3 on the mutual agreement 
reached on 1 May 2018 between the competent 
authorities of Singapore and Australia on the 
interpretation of Articles 2(1)(k)(iii), 4, 5, 11 and 
12 of the Singapore-Australia DTA and other 
minor 
editorial 
changes 
throughout 
the 
document. 
2 
23 October 2021 
Updated Section 7 to provide details on 
arbitration provisions found in Singapore’s DTAs. 
Updated footnote 2 to remove the reference to the 
DTA with South Korea and editorial changes 
made throughout the document for greater clarity.  
3 
30 January 2026 
Updated Sections 4 and 6 to reflect updates in the 
2025 OECD MTC and Commentary.  
Updated and re-organised Section 7 to provide 
information on the MAP process, and re-
organised for “Arbitration” to be a separate 
section. 
Other minor editorial changes throughout the 
document. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Avoidance of Double Taxation Agreements (“DTAs”) 
30 
 
Annex A: Minimum information required when filing a MAP application 
 
1. 
Taxpayer’s name, address, tax identification number, contact details and main 
business activities; 
 
2. 
Letter of authorisation (see Annex B) stating the engagement of tax agents or 
other representatives to act for the taxpayer (where applicable); 
 
3. 
The specific DTA including the provision(s) of the specific article(s) which the 
taxpayer considers is not being correctly applied; 
 
4. 
The relevant facts of the case including any documentation to support these 
facts, the taxation years or period involved and the amounts involved; 
 
5. 
Analysis of the issue(s) involved, including taxpayer’s interpretation of the 
application of the specific DTA provision(s), to support the claim that the 
provision of the specific DTA is not correctly applied, together with relevant 
documentation (e.g. copies of tax assessments, audits conducted by the tax 
authorities leading to the incorrect application of the DTA provision); 
 
6. 
Whether the taxpayer has pursued domestic remedies such as tax tribunals or 
courts in the foreign jurisdiction. If yes, a copy of the decision is to be provided; 
 
7. 
Whether similar issue(s) has been previously dealt with or is currently being 
considered in an advance ruling, advance pricing arrangement, settlement 
arrangement or similar proceedings or by any tax tribunal or court. If yes, a copy 
of these rulings or decisions should be provided where relevant and available; 
 
8. 
How the taxpayer has reflected the issue(s) in its Singapore income tax return 
(e.g. income not brought to tax, foreign tax credit claimed); and  
 
9. 
A statement confirming that all information and documentation provided in the 
MAP request is accurate and that the taxpayer will assist the competent 
authority in its resolution of the issue(s) presented in the MAP request by 
furnishing any other information or documentation required by the CA in a timely 
manner. 
 
 
 

Avoidance of Double Taxation Agreements (“DTAs”) 
31 
 
Annex B: Sample of letter of authorisation  
 
Note: The letter is to be printed on the taxpayer’s letterhead  
 
 
[Date]  
 
International Tax and Relations Division 
Inland Revenue Authority of Singapore  
55 Newton Road  
Singapore 307987  
Attention: [IRAS Case Officer, where available]  
 
 
 
Dear Sir/ Madam, 
 
 
LETTER OF AUTHORITY – APPLICATION FOR MUTUAL AGREEMENT 
PROCEDURE BY [NAME OF TAXPAYER]  
 
 
This is to advise that we have appointed *[Tax agent/ representative (Name and 
contact information)] to represent us on all matters relating to the above application. 
We authorise IRAS to communicate with them via letters, phone calls, electronic 
means (e.g. emails), etc. on all matters relating to the above application.  
 
 
 
Yours faithfully,  
 
 
 
 
[Name of signatory]  
[Designation of signatory]  
[Name of taxpayer]  
 
 
 
*  Please delete accordingly.  
 
 
 
 
