 
 
 
0 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
IRAS e-Tax Guide 
 
Income Tax: Tax Treatment of Gains or Losses 
from the Sale of Foreign Assets 
(Third Edition) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Tax Treatment of Gains or Losses from the Sale of Foreign Assets 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Published by 
Inland Revenue Authority of Singapore 
 
 
 
 
Published on 6 June 2025 
 
First edition on 8 December 2023 
Second edition on 9 December 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Disclaimers: IRAS shall not be responsible or held accountable in any way for any damage, loss or 
expense whatsoever, arising directly or indirectly from any inaccuracy or incompleteness in the 
Contents of this e-Tax Guide, or errors or omissions in the transmission of the Contents. IRAS shall not 
be responsible or held accountable in any way for any decision made or action taken by you or any 
third party in reliance upon the Contents in this e-Tax Guide. Except where specific contents carry legal 
force, this information aims to provide a better general understanding of taxpayers’ tax obligations 
and is not intended to comprehensively address all possible tax issues that may arise. While every effort 
has been made to ensure that this information is consistent with existing law and practice, should there 
be any changes, IRAS reserves the right to vary its position accordingly. 
 
 
© Inland Revenue Authority of Singapore 
 
All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any 
means, including photocopying and recording without the written permission of the copyright holder, 
application for which should be addressed to the publisher. Such written permission must also be 
obtained before any part of this publication is stored in a retrieval system of any nature. 

Tax Treatment of Gains or Losses from Sale of Foreign Assets 
 
 
Table of Contents 
1. 
Aim .......................................................................................................... 1 
2. 
At a Glance .............................................................................................. 1 
3. 
Tax Treatment of Disposal Gains Prior to 1 January 2024 ...................... 2 
4. 
Tax Treatment of Disposal Gains From 1 January 2024 ......................... 2 
5. 
Covered Entities ...................................................................................... 3 
6. 
Covered Income ...................................................................................... 5 
7. 
Scenarios where the Sale or Disposal of Foreign Assets 
(Excluding IPRs) are Not Subject to Tax ................................................. 5 
8. 
Meeting of Economic Substance Requirement in Singapore ................... 7 
9. 
Tax Treatment of Gains from the Sale or Disposal of Foreign IPRs
 .............................................................................................................. 13 
10. Ascertainment of Gains Chargeable to Tax ........................................... 16 
11. Adjustment to Open-Market Price .......................................................... 18 
12. Foreign Tax Credit ................................................................................. 19 
13. Exemption from Tax for Individuals Who Receive Gains from the 
Sale of Foreign Assets by an Entity ....................................................... 19 
14. Administrative Requirements for covered entities with covered 
income ................................................................................................... 20 
15. Advance Ruling on Adequacy of Economic Substance ......................... 21 
16. Contact Information ............................................................................... 21 
17. Frequently Asked Questions ................................................................. 22 
18. Updates and Amendments .................................................................... 27 
Annex A – List of Assets which are Determined to be Situated Outside 
Singapore .............................................................................................. 28 
Annex B – Guidance on the Core Income Generating Activities in 
relation to the Economic Substance Requirement for Each Sector
 .............................................................................................................. 29 
Annex C – Example of a Transitional Measure for Tracking and Tracing 
of Expenditures of IP Assets ................................................................. 31 
Annex D – Computation of Foreign-sourced Disposal Gains ......................... 33 
Annex E – Illustration of the Utilisation of Losses .......................................... 34 
 
 

Tax Treatment of Gains or Losses from the Sale of Foreign Assets 
 
 
1 
 
1. 
Aim 
 
1.1 
 This e-Tax Guide explains the income tax treatment of gains or losses from 
the sale or disposal of any movable or immovable property situated outside 
Singapore (referred to as “foreign asset”). 
 
1.2 
 This e-Tax Guide is relevant to entities1 that derive gains or losses from the 
sale of foreign assets.   
 
 
2. 
At a Glance 
 
2.1 
Currently, gains from the sale of foreign assets that are capital in nature are 
not taxable.    
 
2.2 
To address international tax avoidance risks relating to non-taxation of 
disposal gains in the absence of real economic activities, Singapore has 
amended its foreign-sourced income regime to subject foreign-sourced 
disposal gains to tax under specific circumstances. The amendment is in line 
with Singapore’s focus on anchoring substantive economic activities in 
Singapore and our longstanding policy to align key areas of our tax regime 
with international norms.  
 
2.3 
Singapore will treat gains from the sale or disposal of foreign assets as 
income chargeable to tax under section 10(1)(g) of the Income Tax Act 1947 
(“ITA”) if:  
 
a) the gains are not otherwise chargeable to tax under section 10(1) of the 
ITA; or 
 
b) the gains are otherwise exempt from tax under the ITA. 
 
Such gains are referred to in this guide as “foreign-sourced disposal gains”. 
 
2.4 
Foreign-sourced disposal gains will be chargeable to tax under section 
10(1)(g) of the ITA when the gains are received in Singapore from outside 
Singapore by a covered entity and: 
 
a) the covered entity that derived the gains does not have adequate 
economic substance in Singapore; or 
 
b) the covered entity derived the gains from a disposal of foreign Intellectual 
Property Rights (“IPRs”)2. 
 
 
1 More details on the covered entities can be found in paragraph 5 of this guide. 
2 More details on the tax treatment of gains from disposal of foreign IPRs can be found in paragraph 
9 of this guide. 

Tax Treatment of Gains or Losses from the Sale of Foreign Assets 
 
 
2 
 
2.5 
The changes will apply to the sale or disposal of a foreign asset that occurs 
on or after 1 January 2024.  
 
 
3. 
Tax Treatment of Disposal Gains Prior to 1 January 2024 
 
3.1 
Singapore taxes gains from the sale or disposal of assets as income when 
the gains are revenue in nature, regardless of whether the income is 
Singapore-sourced or foreign-sourced (taxed when received in Singapore). 
Whether a gain from the sale or disposal of an asset is treated as capital or 
revenue in nature is determined with regard to the facts or circumstances of 
each case and with reference to the principles established in case law. The 
factors considered are drawn from established case law principles 
(commonly referred to as the “badges of trade”).   
 
3.2 
Apart from the above, Singapore does not tax gains from the sale or disposal 
of assets that are capital in nature, whether they are foreign-sourced or 
Singapore-sourced.   
 
 
4. 
Tax Treatment of Disposal Gains From 1 January 2024 
 
4.1 
Under the new foreign-sourced disposal gains tax regime (legislated in 
“section 10L of the ITA”), foreign-sourced disposal gains (subject to 
paragraph 2.3 above) received in Singapore by an entity of a relevant group 
(see paragraph 5 below) from the sale or disposal of a foreign asset, will be 
treated as income chargeable to tax under section 10(1)(g) of the ITA under 
certain circumstances.  
 
4.2 
The foreign-sourced disposal gains will be subject to tax if the entity does not 
have adequate economic substance in Singapore or the gains are from the 
disposal of a foreign IPR, and the sale or disposal of the foreign asset occurs 
on or after 1 January 2024.  
 
4.3 
For example, if an entity (with a financial year ending 31 December) disposes 
a foreign asset on 1 June 2023, and the disposal gains are received in 
Singapore on 1 June 2024, such gains will not be subject to tax in Singapore. 
If the disposal of the foreign asset instead occurs on 1 June 2024, and the 
disposal gains are received in Singapore on 1 June 2025, the disposal gains 
will be subject to tax in Singapore in the year of assessment ("YA") 2026, 
unless the gains from the disposal of the asset (not being a foreign IPR) are 
derived from or incidental to the business activities or operations of an entity 
mentioned in paragraph 7 or by an entity that is able to meet the economic 
substance requirement in paragraph 8.  
 
 

Tax Treatment of Gains or Losses from the Sale of Foreign Assets 
 
 
3 
 
4.4 
The foreign-sourced disposal gains are regarded as received in Singapore 
and chargeable to tax if such gains meet the conditions set out in section 
10L(9) of the ITA, i.e., they are: 
 
a) remitted to, or transmitted or brought into, Singapore; 
 
b) applied in or towards satisfaction of any debt incurred in respect of a trade 
or business carried on in Singapore; 
 
c) applied to the purchase of any movable property which is brought into 
Singapore. 
 
4.5 
Generally, the foreign-sourced disposal gains are deemed to be received in 
Singapore only if such gains belong to an entity that is located in Singapore. 
Thus, foreign entities (i.e., not incorporated, registered or established in 
Singapore) that are not operating in or from Singapore will not be within the 
scope of section 10L of the ITA. For example, a foreign entity that only makes 
use of the banking facilities in Singapore and has no operations in Singapore 
is not within the scope of section 10L of the ITA. 
 
 
5. 
Covered Entities 
 
5.1 
Only entities3 of relevant groups (“covered entities”) will be within the scope 
of section 10L of the ITA.  
 
5.2 
An entity is a member of a group of entities if its assets, liabilities, income, 
expenses and cash flows are: 
 
a) included in the consolidated financial statements4 of the parent entity of 
the group; or 
 
b) excluded from the consolidated financial statements of the parent entity 
of the group solely on size or materiality grounds or on the grounds that 
the entity is held for sale. 
 
 
 
 
 
3 An “entity” means — 
a) any legal person (including a company, limited liability partnership) but not an individual; 
b) a general partnership or limited partnership; or 
c) a trust. 
4  “Consolidated financial statements” means financial statements prepared by an entity in 
accordance with generally accepted accounting standards, in which the assets, liabilities, income, 
expenses and cash flows of an entity, and the entities in which it has a controlling interest, are 
presented as those of a single economic unit. 

Tax Treatment of Gains or Losses from the Sale of Foreign Assets 
 
 
4 
 
5.3 
A group is a relevant group if: 
 
a) the entities of the group are not all incorporated, registered or established 
in Singapore; or 
 
b) any entity of the group has a place of business outside Singapore. 
 
5.4 
The definition of a relevant group in paragraph 5.3 means that a group with 
only Singapore entities and operates only in Singapore will not fall within the 
scope of section 10L of the ITA. However, if one of the entities of the group 
has a place of business (e.g., a branch or a permanent establishment) in a 
foreign jurisdiction, the group is considered a relevant group for the purpose 
of section 10L of the ITA.  
 
Examples – Whether an entity falls within the scope of section 10L of 
the ITA 
 
5.5 
Example 1: A Singapore company is not a member of a group (i.e., it is a 
single entity) and it has an overseas branch. The foreign-sourced disposal 
gains received by the company will not fall within the scope of section 10L of 
the ITA as the company and its overseas branch are considered one legal 
entity. 
 
5.6 
Example 2: A Singapore company and its Singapore subsidiary are members 
of a group (i.e., the group comprises two Singapore entities) where the 
Singapore company has a place of business in a foreign jurisdiction by virtue 
of its foreign branch. The foreign-sourced disposal gains received by the 
Singapore company will fall within the scope of section 10L of the ITA as 
there is more than one legal entity in the group (i.e., the Singapore company 
and its subsidiary are members of a group). 
 
5.7 
Example 3: Fund A is an investment fund established in Singapore. It has an 
office in Singapore, and carries out in Singapore various transactions in 
shares of companies in Jurisdiction B. It receives gains from the sale of foreign 
shares from Jurisdiction B which are capital in nature. Following the generally 
accepted accounting standards of Singapore, Fund A is not required to 
consolidate with its investee companies when preparing its financial 
statements. Since Fund A is not included in any consolidated financial 
statements and the reason is not due to size, materiality grounds, or on the 
grounds that the entity is held for sale, it will not fall within the scope of section 
10L of the ITA. 
 
 
 

Tax Treatment of Gains or Losses from the Sale of Foreign Assets 
 
 
5 
 
6. 
Covered Income   
 
6.1 
The gains from the sale or disposal of any movable or immovable property 
situated outside Singapore (“covered income”) of a covered entity will be 
subject to tax under section 10L of the ITA. Common examples where assets 
are determined to be situated outside Singapore are as follows: 
 
a) immovable property is situated outside Singapore; 
 
b) equity securities and debt securities are registered in a foreign exchange;  
 
c) unlisted shares are issued by a company incorporated outside Singapore; 
 
d) loans where the creditor is a resident in a jurisdiction outside Singapore; 
 
e) IPRs where the owner is a resident in a jurisdiction outside Singapore. 
 
Please refer to Annex A for more examples of assets that are determined to 
be situated outside Singapore. 
 
 
7. 
Scenarios where the Sale or Disposal of Foreign Assets (Excluding 
IPRs) are Not Subject to Tax  
 
7.1 
Section 10L of the ITA will not apply to gains from the sale or disposal of a 
foreign asset (not being a foreign IPR) when it is: 
 
a) carried out as part of, or incidental to, the business activities of   
 
i) a bank licensed under the Banking Act 1970; 
ii) a merchant bank licensed under the Banking Act 1970; 
iii) a finance company licensed under the Finance Companies Act 1967; 
iv) an insurer licensed or regulated under the Insurance Act 1966; or 
v) a holder of a capital markets services licence under the Securities and 
Futures Act 2001; 
 
b) carried out as part of, or incidental to, the business activities or operations 
of an entity which are incentivised under the following tax incentives in 
Singapore in the basis period in which the sale or disposal occurred: 
 
i) Aircraft Leasing Scheme5; 
ii) Development and Expansion Incentive6; 
iii) Finance and Treasury Centre Incentive7; 
 
5 Refer to section 43N of the ITA. 
6 Refer to Part 4 of the Economic Expansion Incentives (Relief from Income Tax) Act 1967 (“EEIA”). 
7 Refer to section 43E of the ITA. 

Tax Treatment of Gains or Losses from the Sale of Foreign Assets 
 
 
6 
 
iv) Financial Sector Incentive8; 
v) Global Trader Programme9; 
vi) Insurance Business Development Incentive10; 
vii) Maritime Sector Incentive11; 
viii)Pioneer Certificate Incentive12; 
 
c) carried out by an entity that is able to meet the economic substance 
requirement in Singapore (see paragraph 8 below) in the basis period in 
which the sale or disposal occurred. 
 
Example – Exclusion relating to business activities of an entity with tax 
incentive in Singapore 
 
7.2 
Entity A has been granted a tax incentive (listed in paragraph 7.1b) up to the 
period of 31 July 2025. Entity A disposes three foreign capital assets (not 
being IPRs) during the financial year ended 31 December 2025 as follows: 
 
a) Entity A disposes Foreign Asset X on 1 July 2025. The disposal of the 
Foreign Asset X is determined to be carried out as “part of or incidental to 
the incentivised business”. In this regard, the gain from the disposal of 
Foreign Asset X will not be subject to tax.  
 
b) Entity A disposes Foreign Asset Y on 15 July 2025. The disposal of the 
Foreign Asset Y is determined not to be carried out as “part of or incidental 
to the incentivised business” (e.g., disposal of foreign immovable property 
which was used to derive rental income and not in the course of carrying 
out its incentivised activity). In this regard, the gain from disposal of 
Foreign Asset Y will be subject to tax upon remittance unless Entity A is 
able to meet the economic substance requirement in Singapore under 
paragraph 8 below. 
 
c) Entity A disposes the Foreign Asset Z on 1 September 2025. As the 
disposal occurs after the incentive period, the disposal of Foreign Asset 
Z is not carried out as “part of or incidental to the incentivised business”. 
In this regard, the gain from disposal of Foreign Asset Z will be subject to 
tax upon remittance unless Entity A is able to meet the economic 
substance requirement in Singapore under paragraph 8 below. 
 
 
 
 
8 Refer to section 43J of the ITA. 
9 Refer to section 43I of the ITA. 
10 Refer to sections 43C and 43R of the ITA. 
11 Refer to sections 13A, 13E, 13P, 43L, 43P, 43Q and 43U of the ITA. 
12 Refer to Parts 2 and 3 of the EEIA. 

Tax Treatment of Gains or Losses from the Sale of Foreign Assets 
 
 
7 
 
8. 
Meeting of Economic Substance Requirement in Singapore 
 
8.1 
Foreign-sourced disposal gains from the sale or disposal of a foreign asset 
(not being an IPR) will not be brought to tax if the entity has adequate 
economic substance in the basis period in which the sale or disposal occurs. 
The economic substance requirement will not be applied at a jurisdictional 
level for a group. It will be assessed at the entity level, except for the scenario 
mentioned in paragraphs 8.12 and 8.13. 
 
(A) Pure equity-holding entity 
 
8.2 
A pure equity-holding entity is an entity: 
 
a) whose function is to hold shares or equity interests in any other entity; and 
 
b) has no income other than — 
i) dividends or similar payments from the shares or equity interests13;  
ii) gains on the sale or disposal of the shares or equity interests; or 
iii) income incidental to its activities of holding shares or equity interests. 
 
8.3 
To meet the economic substance requirement, the entity is required to satisfy 
all the following conditions in the basis period in which the sale or disposal 
occurs: 
 
a) the entity submits to a public authority any return, statement or account 
required under the written law under which it is incorporated or registered, 
being a return, statement or account which it is required by that law to 
submit to that authority on a regular basis;  
 
b) the operations of the entity are managed and performed in Singapore 
(whether by its employees or outsourced to third parties or group entities); 
and 
 
c) the entity has adequate human resources and premises14 in Singapore to 
carry out the operations of the entity. 
 
13 “Equity interest”, in relation to an entity, means an interest that carries rights to the profits, capital 
or reserves of the entity and is accounted for as equity under generally accepted accounting 
principles. 
14 A pure equity-holding entity will be considered as meeting the “adequate premises” criterion if:  
a) it has an office in Singapore for the use of its employee(s) (including rented premises or co-
working office spaces); 
b) it shares a premise with an associated entity for the use of its employee(s); or  
c) the outsourced service provider performing the pure equity-holding entity’s core income 
generating activity has an office in Singapore. 
A pure registered address (e.g., address of the corporate secretary) that is not used by the pure 
equity-holding entity’s employees or outsourced service provider to perform the pure equity-holding 
entity’s core income generating activity will not meet the “adequate premises” criterion. 

Tax Treatment of Gains or Losses from the Sale of Foreign Assets 
 
 
8 
 
Examples – Pure equity-holding entity 
 
8.4 
Example 1: Company A, a pure equity-holding entity, holds shares issued by 
Company B, a foreign-incorporated company. During the financial year 2024, 
Company A disposes some Company B shares.  
 
Company A has an employee15 in Singapore, and it shares an office with an 
associated company in Singapore. During the financial year 2024, the 
employee manages the investments (e.g., the employee monitors/ reviews 
the performance of the investments or makes buy/ sell decisions on the 
investments) and ensures that Company A complies with its filing 
requirements with Accounting and Corporate Regulatory Authority and Inland 
Revenue Authority of Singapore. In this regard, Company A will be regarded 
as having met the economic substance requirement for the financial year 
2024. 
 
8.5 
Example 2: Limited Partnership C, a pure equity-holding entity, disposes 
some shares of Company D, a foreign-incorporated company, during the 
financial year 2024. Limited Partnership C is managed by General Partner E 
which is incorporated and is a tax resident in Singapore. General Partner E 
has an executive director based in Singapore which manages Limited 
Partnership C's investments. General Partner E has an office for the 
executive director to perform his duties of managing Limited Partnership C’s 
investments. 
 
In the financial year 2024, the executive director of General Partner E 
ensures that Limited Partnership C complies with filing requirements, and 
engages and monitors the activities carried out by outsourced service 
providers on behalf of Limited Partnership C. As such, Limited Partnership C 
will be regarded as having met the economic substance requirement for the 
financial year 2024.   
 
8.6 
Example 3: Company F is a pure equity-holding entity incorporated in 
Singapore. It holds shares in an investee entity outside Singapore. While 
Company F engages a service provider in Singapore to handle its filing 
matters, it only has one nominee director in Singapore. The management of 
its equity investments, including decisions to buy or sell, are undertaken by 
the company’s directors outside Singapore. Since Company F does not carry 
out its core economic activities in Singapore, it is not able to meet the 
economic substance requirement. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
15 Includes a director of the company (excluding nominee director). 

Tax Treatment of Gains or Losses from the Sale of Foreign Assets 
 
 
9 
 
(B) Non-pure equity-holding entity 
 
8.7 
A non-pure equity-holding entity is an entity that is not a pure equity-holding 
entity.  
 
8.8 
The economic substance requirement will be determined based on an 
analysis of the entity’s core income generating activities in Singapore (see 
Annex B for guidance on the core income generating activities in relation to 
the economic substance requirement for each sector). 
 
8.9 
To meet the economic substance requirement, the entity is required to satisfy 
all the following conditions in the basis period in which the sale or disposal 
occurs: 
 
a) the operations of the entity are managed and performed in Singapore 
(whether by its employees or outsourced to third parties or group entities); 
and 
 
b) the entity has adequate economic substance in Singapore, taking into 
account the following considerations: 
 
i) the number of full-time employees16 of the entity (or other persons 
managing or performing the entity's operations) in Singapore; 
ii) the qualifications and experience of such employees or other persons; 
iii) the amount of business expenditure incurred by the entity in respect 
of its operations in Singapore; 
iv) whether the key business decisions of the entity are made by persons 
in Singapore. 
 
Examples – Non-pure equity-holding entity 
 
8.10 Example 1: Company G is an investment holding entity in Singapore that 
mainly invests in equities and provides loans to its related parties. As 
Company G provides loans in addition to investing in equities, it is a non-pure 
equity-holding entity. Company G disposes some shares in a foreign 
company in 2024. 
 
Company G has two full-time employees with relevant qualifications to 
manage the investments in Singapore and they make decisions in relation to 
the company’s investments and financing arrangements. It also incurs 
 
16 The number of full-time employees includes:  
(a) employees working at least 35 hours a week;  
(b) executive directors; or 
(c) full time equivalent of part-time employees. For example, two part-time employees with daily 
working hours of 4 hours each will be considered one full-time employee. 

Tax Treatment of Gains or Losses from the Sale of Foreign Assets 
 
 
10 
 
$100,000 of local business expenditure17 in 2024. It will be considered to 
have met the economic substance requirement in 2024. 
  
8.11 Example 2: Company H is a small entity with an annual turnover of less than 
$5 million. It is not a pure equity-holding entity or an investment holding entity. 
It disposes some foreign assets in 2024. It employs one full-time employee 
in Singapore to carry out its core income generating activity and make key 
business decisions. It also incurs $50,000 of local business expenditure in 
2024. It will be considered to have met the economic substance requirement 
in 2024. 
 
Economic substance test can be applied at the holding entity level on 
behalf of its special purpose vehicles (“SPVs”)  
 
8.12 A SPV is typically formed to ring-fence the risks of investments and does not 
have headcount or significant expenditure residing within the SPV. If the 
immediate holding entity: 
 
a) has effective control18 over the SPV;  
b) derives economic benefits from the activities carried out by the SPV; and 
c) defines the core investment strategies that the SPV implements, 
 
the immediate holding entity will not be considered a service provider of the 
SPV but will be the entity to be subject to the economic substance 
requirement.  
 
8.13 If the immediate holding entity is also an SPV and another intermediate 
holding entity/ ultimate holding entity19: 
 
a) has effective control over the SPV (including the immediate holding entity 
of the SPV if any); 
b) derives economic benefits from the activities carried out by the SPV; and 
c) defines the core investment strategies that the SPV implements, 
 
the relevant intermediate holding entity/ ultimate holding entity would be 
subject to the economic substance requirement.  
 
 
 
 
 
17 Examples of business expenditure include rental expense, staff-related expenses like salaries, 
and statutory expenses. 
18 Financial Reporting Standard (“FRS”) 110 (Consolidated Financial Statements) establishes control 
as the basis for determining who has to present and which entities are consolidated. For the purposes 
of determining control for the purposes of section 10L, we will generally rely on FRS 110. 
19 The economic substance requirement can be tested on the ultimate holding entity only if the 
intermediate holding entity below the ultimate holding entity is also a SPV. 

Tax Treatment of Gains or Losses from the Sale of Foreign Assets 
 
 
11 
 
Outsourcing of economic activities  
 
8.14 The economic substance requirement takes into account outsourcing 
arrangements where an entity outsources some or all of its economic 
activities to third parties or group entities. 
 
8.15 For an outsourcing arrangement to satisfy the economic substance 
requirement, the following conditions must be satisfied: 
 
a) the economic activities are to be carried out by the outsourced entity in 
Singapore; 
 
b) the outsourcing entity has a direct and effective control over the 
outsourced activities carried out by the outsourced entity on its behalf (i.e., 
the outsourcing entity has exercised adequate monitoring20 and control of 
the economic activities carried out by the outsourced entity); and  
 
c) the outsourced entity providing the outsourced services must set aside 
dedicated resources (e.g., manhours) to provide the outsourced services.  
 
8.16 When determining whether the outsourcing entity is able to satisfy the 
economic substance requirement in respect of its economic activities, the 
resources21 of the outsourced entity in Singapore will be considered. It is 
generally expected to charge the outsourcing entity an arm’s-length fee for 
the activities performed, subject to transfer pricing rules where applicable. 
The outsourced entity can provide support to more than one entity, provided 
that its resources are commensurate with the complexity and level of services 
it provides to other entities. 
 
Examples - Outsourcing of economic activities 
 
8.17 Example 1: Singapore-listed Real Estate Investment Trust (“S-REIT”)  
 
An S-REIT has an overseas related entity to hold its overseas real properties.  
It engages a REIT Manager in Singapore. 
  
The role of the REIT Manager is to manage the S-REIT’s assets for the 
benefit of unitholders, and it charges an arm’s length fee for its services. The 
investment business activities, including the acquisition, disposal, and 
management of the S-REIT’s investments, are conducted by the REIT 
Manager in Singapore on behalf of the S-REIT.   
 
 
20 The monitoring mechanism should be documented in an outsourcing agreement or internal 
policies of the outsourcing entity. The documents could include relevant email correspondences. 
21 It is possible for one employee of the outsourced entity to provide support to more than one entity. 

Tax Treatment of Gains or Losses from the Sale of Foreign Assets 
 
 
12 
 
The REIT disposes some equity interest in the overseas related entity in 
2024. The S-REIT will meet the economic substance requirement and 
outsourcing rules in 2024 if: 
 
a) the core income generating activity is carried out by its REIT Manager in 
Singapore;  
 
b) the trust deed sets out the following: 
 
i) 
the functions and responsibilities of the REIT Manager; 
ii) provision for the termination of the services of the REIT Manager; 
 
c) the REIT Manager has set aside dedicated resources to perform its 
functions and responsibilities as per the trust deed; and 
 
d) the REIT Manager charges an arm’s length fee for its services.  
 
 
 
8.18 Example 2: Private Trust - A trust will meet the economic substance 
requirement and outsourcing rules if: 
 
a) the core income generating activity is carried out by its Trustee in 
Singapore;  
 
b) the trust deed sets out the following: 
 
i) the functions and responsibilities of the Trustee; 
ii) provision for the termination of the services of the Trustee; 
 
c) the Trustee has set aside dedicated resources to perform its functions and 
responsibilities as per the trust deed; and 
 
d) the Trustee charges an arm’s length fee for its services.  

Tax Treatment of Gains or Losses from the Sale of Foreign Assets 
 
 
13 
 
8.19 Example 3: Registered Business Trust - A registered business trust will meet 
the economic substance requirement and outsourcing rules if: 
 
a) the core income generating activity is carried out by its Trustee-manager 
in Singapore;  
 
b) trust deed sets out the following: 
 
i) 
the functions and responsibilities of the Trustee-manager; 
ii) provision for the termination of the services of the Trustee-manager; 
 
c) the Trustee-manager has set aside dedicated resources to perform its 
functions and responsibilities as per the trust deed; and 
 
d) the Trustee-manager charges an arm’s length fee for its services.  
 
 
9. 
Tax Treatment of Gains from the Sale or Disposal of Foreign IPRs 
 
9.1 
The tax treatment of gains from the sale or disposal of foreign IPRs is different 
from that of other foreign assets. The non-taxation of foreign-sourced 
disposal gains for entities in paragraphs 7 and 8 is not applicable to gains 
from disposal of foreign IPRs.  
 
Qualifying foreign IPRs 
 
9.2 
For gains from the sale or disposal of qualifying foreign IPRs as defined in 
section 43X22 of the ITA, a modified nexus approach is used to determine the 
extent of such gains that will not be taxable when received in Singapore.  
 
9.3 
The modified nexus approach is an international standard set by the   
Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (“OECD”), which 
permits jurisdictions to provide tax benefits to the income arising out of a 
qualifying IPR, so long as there is a direct nexus between the income 
receiving benefits and expenditures contributing to that income.   
 
9.4 
Qualifying IPR means: 
 
a) any patent under the Patents Act 1994 or the equivalent law of any 
country or territory; 
 
b) an application for a patent under the Patents Act 1994 or the equivalent 
law of any country or territory; 
 
c) any copyright subsisting in software by virtue of the Copyright Act 2021 
or the equivalent law of any country or territory, 
 
22 Refer to the concessionary rate of tax for intellectual property income. 

Tax Treatment of Gains or Losses from the Sale of Foreign Assets 
 
 
14 
 
and includes a family of qualifying IPRs. 
 
9.5 
The definition of the “modified nexus ratio” is calculated in accordance with 
the following formula and is capped at 100%:  
 
Modified Nexus Ratio23 = 
QE x 130% 
QE + NE 
 
Where  
QE  
means the qualifying Research and Development24 (“R&D”) 
expenditure incurred in respect of the qualifying IPR to 
which the qualifying IP income disposal gains relate. 
 
Qualifying R&D expenditure25 
a) Direct R&D expenditure incurred by the entity (except 
under a cost-sharing agreement (“CSA”)) on the 
qualifying IPR; 
b) Expenditure incurred for R&D carried out on behalf of the 
entity (except under a CSA) by (i) an unrelated party, or 
(ii) a Singapore-resident related party in Singapore; and 
c) Payments made by the entity under a CSA (except 
excluded CSAs26) to carry out R&D. 
NE  
 
means the non-qualifying expenditure incurred in respect of 
the qualifying IPR. 
 
Non-qualifying expenditure 
a) Expenditure (including licensing fees) incurred (except 
under a CSA) to obtain a qualifying IPR on which the 
entity has carried out R&D; 
b) Expenditure incurred for R&D carried out on behalf of the 
entity (except under a CSA) by a related party, where the 
related party is a non-resident or the R&D is carried out 
outside Singapore;  
c) Payments under excluded CSAs to carry out R&D; and 
d) Buy-in payments to become a party to a CSA to obtain a 
qualifying IPR. 
 
 
 
23 Please refer to Part 1 of the Schedule of the Income Tax (Concessionary rate of tax for intellectual 
property income) Regulations 2021. 
24 Section 2 of the ITA provides a definition of R&D. 
25 Refer to the full definition in paragraph 1 of Part 1 of The Schedule of the Regulations. It excludes 
interest payment or any payment for land or building, or any alteration, addition, or extension to any 
building. 
26 Excluded CSAs are CSAs where none of the R&D under the CSA is carried out by (i) the entity; 
(ii) an unrelated party; or (iii) a Singapore-resident related party where the R&D is carried out in 
Singapore.  

Tax Treatment of Gains or Losses from the Sale of Foreign Assets 
 
 
15 
 
9.6 
The modified nexus ratio is applied to calculate the portion of disposal gains 
that will not be subject to tax when received in Singapore by the entity, which 
is ascertained in accordance with the following formula: 
 
Gains not subject to tax = Disposal gains of qualifying IPR x Modified Nexus 
Ratio 
 
Consequently, the gains subject to tax under section 10L is ascertained in 
accordance with the following formula:  
 
Gains subject to tax = Total gains – Gains not subject to tax 
 
Non-qualifying foreign IPRs 
 
9.7 
For non-qualifying foreign IPRs, the full amount of the gains from the sale or 
disposal of the IPRs will be subject to tax when such gains are received in 
Singapore. This is regardless of whether the entity has adequate economic 
substance in Singapore. 
 
Example – Modified nexus approach 
 
9.8 
Entity A disposes two foreign IPRs: 
 
a) Example 1: A patent is disposed with a disposal gain of $300,000 in 2024. 
The total qualifying expenditure incurred for the connected R&D carried 
out by Entity A was $100,000, and the non-qualifying expenditure incurred 
by Entity A to obtain the right was $200,000.  
 
Where the gain of $300,000 is received in Singapore in 2025, the amount 
of the gain that is not subject to tax is calculated as follows:  
 
Modified nexus ratio = ($100,000 x 130%) / ($100,000+$200,000)  
 
$300,000 x [($100,000 x 130%) / ($100,000+$200,000)] = $130,000 
 
Amount of gain that is subject to tax when it is received in Singapore: 
  
$300,000 - $130,000 = $170,000 
 
b) Example 2: A marketing-related IP asset is disposed in 2024 with a 
disposal gain of $100,000. The IP asset is not a qualifying IPR as defined 
in paragraph 9.4. As such, the full amount of the gain of $100,000 will be 
subject to tax when it is received in Singapore in 2025.  
 
Transitional arrangement 
 
9.9 
As a transitional measure, an entity is allowed to apply a transitional nexus 
ratio. For the transitional nexus ratio, the expenditures (i.e., the QE and NE) 

Tax Treatment of Gains or Losses from the Sale of Foreign Assets 
 
 
16 
 
are calculated based on three-year rolling average or expenditure incurred 
during the R&D period (if this is less than the three-year rolling average), 
instead of cumulative expenditure from the date the entity first incurs R&D 
expenditure in connection with the qualifying IPR. 
 
9.10 The purpose of the transitional nexus ratio is to allow sufficient time for 
taxpayers to adapt to the tracking and tracing requirements while still 
complying with the general principles of the nexus approach. After the 
transitional period of three years, the entity would transition from using the 
three-year average to the modified nexus ratio.  
 
9.11 Please refer to an example of a transitional measure for tracking and tracing 
of expenditures in Annex C. 
 
 
10. 
Ascertainment of Gains Chargeable to Tax 
 
10.1 The following deductions may be allowed to ascertain the amount of gains 
from the sale or disposal of foreign assets chargeable to tax in Singapore: 
 
a) Any expenditure (except those mentioned in paragraph 10.2) incurred by 
the entity: 
i) to acquire, create or improve the foreign asset;  
ii) to protect or preserve the value of the foreign asset; or  
iii) to sell or dispose the foreign asset.  
 
The expenditure will include expenses incurred to finance the acquisition, 
creation, and improvement of the foreign asset.  
 
b) Any loss (subject to paragraph 10.6) incurred by the entity from the sale 
or disposal of any other foreign asset. 
 
10.2 The following expenditures are not deductible: 
 
a) Any expenditure that has been allowed a deduction against any other 
income, whether or not such income is chargeable or exempt from tax; or 
 
b) Capital expenditure computed by the following formula: 
 
 
  
 
 
D-E 
 
where: 
D is the amount of capital expenditure of the foreign asset for which any 
capital allowance (including any balancing allowance) is made against any 
other income; and 
 
E is the amount of any balancing charge (or similar charge) made on the sale 
or disposal of the foreign asset. 

Tax Treatment of Gains or Losses from the Sale of Foreign Assets 
 
 
17 
 
 
Examples - To illustrate paragraph 10.2(b) 
 
10.3 Example 1: Entity A purchases an equipment at $300,000 during the financial 
year 2023. On 31 December 2024, Entity A disposes the equipment at 
$350,000. Entity A has claimed capital allowances on the equipment of 
$200,000 in YA 2024 and YA 2025. In addition, a balancing charge, capped 
at $200,000 is made in YA 2025. 
 
The following expenditure will not be deductible: 
= D – E  
= $200,000 (capital allowances claimed) - $200,000 (balancing charge) 
= $0 
 
The amount of gains that will be subject to tax under section 10L: 
= Sales proceeds – historical cost + capital expenditure that is not deductible 
based on the formula of D-E  
= $350,000 - $300,000 + $0 
= $50,000 
 
10.4 Example 2: Entity B purchases an equipment at $600,000 during the financial 
year 2023. On 31 December 2024, Entity B disposes the equipment at 
$250,000. Entity B has claimed capital allowances on the equipment of 
$400,000 in YA 2024 and YA 2025. In addition, a balancing charge of 
$50,000 is made in YA 2025. 
 
The following expenditure will not be deductible: 
= D – E  
= $400,000 (capital allowances claimed) - $50,000 (balancing charge) 
= $350,000 
 
The amount of gains that will be subject to tax under section 10L: 
= Sales proceeds – historical cost + capital expenditure that is not deductible 
based on the formula of D-E  
= $250,000 - $600,000 + $350,000 
= $0 
 
10.5 Where not all the gains from the sale or disposal of a foreign asset are 
received in Singapore in the same basis period, a portion of the amount 
deductible under paragraph 10.1(a) above as the Comptroller of Income Tax 
(“Comptroller”) considers reasonable is deductible for each basis period in 
which any such gains are received in Singapore. Please refer to Annex D 
which illustrates the computation of the foreign-sourced disposal gains.  
 
10.6 The loss mentioned in paragraph 10.1(b) above may be deducted subject to 
the following: 
 
a) Had the sale or disposal of the foreign asset resulted in a gain, the gain 
would have been subject to tax under section 10L of the ITA;  

Tax Treatment of Gains or Losses from the Sale of Foreign Assets 
 
 
18 
 
b) The loss can only be used to set off against foreign-sourced disposal 
gains that have been chargeable to tax; and 
 
c) The balance of loss not so set off will be carried forward to set off against 
the foreign-sourced disposal gains that are chargeable to tax in Singapore 
in a future YA.  
 
10.7 Please refer to Annex E which illustrates the utilisation of losses. 
 
 
11. 
Adjustment to Open-Market Price 
 
11.1 Where the sale or disposal of a foreign asset by the entity was at a price less 
than the open-market price for the foreign asset, the Comptroller may treat 
the following amount as the amount of the gains received in Singapore: 
 
 
 
 
A + B - C 
  
where: 
A is the amount of the gains actually received in Singapore; 
B is the open-market price for the foreign asset; and 
C is the actual price for the sale or disposal of the foreign asset. 
 
11.2 The open-market price for a foreign asset is either: 
 
a) the price which the foreign asset could have been sold for in the open 
market on the date of its sale or disposal; or 
 
b) where the Comptroller is satisfied by reason of the special nature of the 
foreign asset that it is not practicable to determine the price mentioned in 
paragraph (a), such other value as appears to the Comptroller to be 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
 
11.3 If no amount of the gain is received in Singapore, the Comptroller will not tax 
the difference between the open market price and the actual price of the 
foreign asset. The Comptroller will tax the difference between the open 
market price and the actual price of the foreign asset in the year when there 
is an amount of gain received in Singapore.   
 
 
 

Tax Treatment of Gains or Losses from the Sale of Foreign Assets 
 
 
19 
 
Example - Adjustment to Open-Market Price 
 
11.4 Entity A sells a foreign asset to its related party, Entity B for $250,000 in 2024 
and makes a gain of $30,000. Entity A remits $10,000 of the gain to 
Singapore in the same year. The open market price for the foreign asset is 
$600,000 on the date of its disposal. The Comptroller may treat the amount 
of $360,000 ($10,000 + $600,000 – $250,000) as the gain received in 
Singapore in 2024.   
 
 
12. 
Foreign Tax Credit 
 
12.1 The foreign-sourced disposal gains received in Singapore may have been 
taxed in the foreign jurisdiction before the gains are received in Singapore. A 
Singapore tax resident entity may claim double taxation relief27,  unilateral 
tax credit28, or elect for the foreign tax credit pooling system29 when claiming 
the foreign tax credit to alleviate the foreign tax suffered on the foreign-
sourced disposal gains. The foreign tax credit may be claimed within four 
years after the year of remittance. 
 
 
13. 
Exemption from Tax for Individuals Who Receive Gains from the Sale 
of Foreign Assets by an Entity 
 
13.1 Tax exemption under section 13(1)(zu) of the ITA will be given on the capital 
gains derived from the sale or disposal of a foreign asset where the gains are 
assessable as the income of an individual. For example, where the covered 
entity is a partnership and tax transparency treatment applies, the share of 
capital gains from the sale or disposal of a foreign asset will be exempt from 
tax in the hands of an individual partner of the partnership. 
 
13.2 Tax exemption will not be given if the gains are business revenue gains. For 
example, an individual Mr A is a partner of a partnership that buys/ sells 
properties in both Singapore and Jurisdiction B. As tax transparency 
 
27 A double taxation relief may be granted if the foreign tax is paid in accordance with the Avoidance 
of Double Taxation Agreement provisions and is capped at the lower of the foreign tax paid and the 
Singapore tax that would be payable on the same income.  
28 Section 50A(1)(ha) of the ITA provides that unilateral tax credits can be allowed for any foreign tax 
paid in respect of a gain that is treated as income under section 10L. 
29 The foreign-sourced disposal gains received by the resident entity must satisfy all of the following 
conditions: 
i) 
foreign income tax has been paid on the disposal gains in the foreign jurisdiction from which 
the gains are derived; 
ii) the headline tax rate of the foreign jurisdiction from which the disposal gains are derived is 
at least 15% at the time the disposal gains are received in Singapore; and 
iii) the foreign-sourced disposal gains are subject to tax in Singapore and entity is entitled to 
claim for foreign tax credits under the ITA.  

Tax Treatment of Gains or Losses from the Sale of Foreign Assets 
 
 
20 
 
treatment applies, the share of revenue gains from the sale or disposal of the 
properties in Jurisdiction B will be taxable in the hands of Mr A. 
 
 
14. 
Administrative Requirements for covered entities with covered income 
 
14.1 To ensure that entities keep track of the gains/ losses from disposal of foreign 
assets and accurately report their taxes when such gains are received or 
losses are utilised in Singapore, they are required to provide the following 
information with respect to such gains/ losses in their tax computations when 
submitting their annual income tax returns: 
 
• Unremitted gains/ unutilised losses brought forward from prior YAs; 
• Gains/ losses in the current financial year; 
• Gains received/ losses utilised in Singapore during the financial year; 
• Gains used30 during the year and not received in Singapore; 
• Unremitted gains/ unutilised losses carried forward; 
• Tracking of allowable expenses (foreign and local expenses) attributable 
to the foreign-sourced gains/ losses; 
• Information on economic substance in Singapore (for example, number 
of employees, amount of operating expenditure, information on 
outsourcing arrangements if business activities are outsourced); 
• Gains/ losses of foreign IPRs not subject to tax under the Modified Nexus 
Approach. 
 
14.2 Entities are required to retain all records reasonably required for the 
Comptroller to ascertain the amount of net gains from disposal of foreign 
assets chargeable to tax. These supporting documents need not be 
submitted with their annual Income Tax Returns, but they should be 
submitted to the Comptroller for verification when requested. Such records 
with respect to the gains/ losses from disposal of foreign assets may include, 
but are not limited to, the following: 
 
• Audited financial statements/ certified management accounts31 for the 
financial year the gains/ losses were accrued; 
• Supporting documents stating the principal activity of the entity for the 
financial year the gains/ losses accrued (if there are no audited financial 
statements); 
• Payroll documents reflecting the number of full-time employees based 
in Singapore for the financial year the gains/ losses were accrued; 
 
30 This refers to the gains that are used in a manner that are not considered as received in Singapore, 
such that the gains become permanently unavailable for subsequent remittance. One example of 
such use is when the gains are kept offshore and used for payment of Singapore one-tier tax exempt 
dividends directly to the shareholder’s bank account.  
31 Certified management accounts can be submitted if the entity is exempt from audit requirements. 

Tax Treatment of Gains or Losses from the Sale of Foreign Assets 
 
 
21 
 
• Supporting documents on the sales proceeds, historical costs and any 
other expenditure incurred to derive the gains/ losses; 
• Supporting documents reflecting the foreign tax paid by the entity in 
relation to the gain (e.g., notice of assessment or tax receipt issued by 
the foreign tax administration); 
• Supporting documents to demonstrate monitoring and control of the 
services provided by the outsourced entity; 
• Supporting documents providing details of the IP assets; 
• Supporting documents to calculate the Modified Nexus Ratio and amount 
not subject to tax for qualifying IP assets. 
 
 
15. 
Advance Ruling on Adequacy of Economic Substance 
 
15.1 You may make an application for advance ruling to seek certainty on the 
adequacy of economic substance (“ESR AR applications”) when a 
proposed sale or disposal of foreign assets is expected to occur. This is 
provided that the proposed sale or disposal of foreign assets is envisaged to 
take place within one year from the date of the application. 
 
15.2 The advance ruling on the adequacy of economic substance, if issued32, may 
be valid for up to five YAs, including the YA relating to the basis period in 
which the proposed sale or disposal of foreign assets is envisaged to take 
place. This means that the ruling may be applicable to the foreign-sourced 
disposal gains from any subsequent sale or disposal of foreign assets within 
the advance ruling validity period. This is provided that the relevant facts and 
representations made for the purpose of the ruling application remain 
unchanged and there is no change in the tax laws or our interpretation of the 
tax laws. 
 
15.3 Please refer to the IRAS website > Home > Taxes > Corporate Income Tax 
> Specific Topics > Advance Ruling System for Income Tax > for more 
information on the advance ruling system.  
 
 
16. 
Contact Information  
 
16.1 For general enquiries or clarifications on this e-Tax guide, please call 
1800 356 8622. 
 
 
 
 
32 The Comptroller may decline to make a ruling under the circumstances specified in the Part 1 of 
the Seventh Schedule of the ITA. 

Tax Treatment of Gains or Losses from the Sale of Foreign Assets 
 
 
22 
 
17. 
Frequently Asked Questions 
 
Covered entity 
 
1 My entity is a member of a group of Singapore companies, and one of the 
members has a permanent establishment overseas. Will my entity be 
considered an entity that falls within the scope of section 10L of the ITA? 
 
Yes, the entity will fall within the scope of section 10L of the ITA. 
 
2 A Singapore entity (Company A) holds a group of Singapore companies 
with no place of business outside Singapore and an overseas associate 
company (Company B). Company A accounts for the investment in 
Company B using the equity method and the assets, liabilities, income, 
expenses and cash flows of Company B are not included in the 
consolidated financial statements of Company A. Will Company B be 
considered a member of the group under section 10L? 
 
No, Company B will not be considered a member of the group under section 10L 
as its assets, liabilities, income, expenses and cash flows are not included in the 
consolidated financial statements of its parent entity on a line-by-line basis in 
accordance with generally accepted accounting standards. 
 
3 Will section 10L apply if an entity did not comply with “FRS 110 – 
Consolidated Financial Statements” even though it is required to do so? 
 
Yes, section 10L will apply if the entity is required to comply with FRS 110 but 
chooses not to do so, provided it satisfies other conditions of a covered entity in 
paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3. 
 
Economic substance requirement 
 
4 How will the economic substance requirement be applied to the various 
sectors, for example, the shipping industry or the wholesalers? What is 
considered “adequate”, and will there be any clear thresholds to help us 
determine what is “adequate”? 
 
Economic substance requirement will be determined based on an analysis of the 
entity’s core income generating activities in Singapore. (See Annex B for 
guidance on the core income generating activities in relation to the economic 
substance requirement for each sector.) 
 
Adequate economic substance should commensurate with the business model 
and scale of operations. As the business models and scale of operations for 
entities may be very varied within the same sector, there are no prescribed 
minimum thresholds to determine the adequacy of economic substance at this 
juncture. 
 

Tax Treatment of Gains or Losses from the Sale of Foreign Assets 
 
 
23 
 
5 Is the economic substance requirement to be met in the year of disposal 
of the asset or in the year the gains are received in Singapore? 
 
The economic substance requirement must be met in the year of disposal of the 
asset. 
 
6 My entity is an investment holding entity that invests in shares. My entity 
does not have any business premise in Singapore and the registered 
address of my entity is that of a corporate service provider. Our employees 
work remotely outside Singapore and there are no employees working in 
Singapore. We do not outsource our business activities to any service 
provider. Will my entity be considered to have adequate economic 
substance in Singapore? 
 
As your entity does not have a premise and employees in Singapore and does 
not outsource the business operations to a service provider in Singapore, it will 
not be considered to have adequate economic substance in Singapore.  
 
7 Does interest income derived from shareholders’ loans qualify as “income 
incidental to its activities of holding shares or equity interests in other 
entities” under the definition of a pure equity-holding entity? 
 
Interest income derived from shareholders’ loans will not be considered as 
“income incidental to its activities of holding shares or equity interests in other 
entities” of a pure equity-holding company. 
 
Examples of “income incidental to its activities of holding shares or equity 
interests in other entities” of a pure equity-holding company are: 
• bank interest income; 
• foreign exchange gains arising from dividends or similar payments, sale 
or disposal of shares, and bank interest income. 
 
8 Will the provision of an interest-free loan by my entity to its shareholders 
affect its status of a pure equity-holding entity? 
 
Yes, the entity will not be considered a pure equity-holding entity. A pure equity-
holding entity is an entity that only holds shares or equity interests in other 
entities and only earns dividends or similar payments from the shares or equity 
interests, disposal gains of the shares or equity interests and income incidental 
to the activities of holding such shares or equity interests.  
 
Covered income  
 
9 Where the amount received in Singapore is less than the historical cost of 
the asset, would the proceeds received in Singapore be accepted as capital 
funds received in Singapore and not disposal gains received in 
Singapore?  
   

Tax Treatment of Gains or Losses from the Sale of Foreign Assets 
 
 
24 
 
The proceeds received in Singapore can be treated as capital funds and not 
gains from the disposal of foreign assets if the entity can provide an account of 
the funds from foreign-sourced capital sources before the date of repatriation. 
This account should show that after the repatriation, the funds remaining outside 
Singapore is no less than the amount of gain from disposal of the foreign asset 
that has yet to be received in Singapore. 
 
10 Can my company rely on the exemptions under section 13 of the ITA to 
exempt the gains from disposal of foreign assets from Singapore tax? 
 
No, if the disposal gains are subject to tax under section 10L of the ITA, the 
exemptions under section 13 will not be applicable. 
 
11 If the disposal gain has been subject to tax as trade income under section 
10(1)(a) of the ITA, would such gain be subject to tax again under section 
10L of the ITA? 
 
No. As the gain has been taxed as trade income, the gain would not be brought 
to tax again under section 10L of the ITA. 
 
12 Will proceeds from the sale of a foreign business that is capital in nature 
fall within the scope of section 10L of the ITA? 
 
Yes. Where a covered entity sells its business via sale of assets, it must apply 
the rules under Annex A for each asset to determine if the asset is a foreign 
asset situated outside Singapore. Gains from the sale of foreign assets will fall 
within the scope of section 10L of the ITA. 
 
13 In a scenario where: 
 
a. a Singapore resident is the owner of the economic benefits of an IPR; 
b. the legal owner of the IPR is a non-Singapore resident; and  
c. the Singapore resident sells its economic ownership of the IPR,  
 
will this be considered a sale of a foreign asset by the Singapore resident? 
 
No. If the owner of a contractual right in respect of the benefits of an IPR is a tax 
resident in Singapore, the gains from the sale or disposal of its contractual right 
are considered as sourced in Singapore. 
 
14 Is the remittance of a foreign-sourced dividend that originates from gains 
from disposal of foreign assets subject to tax under section 10L of the ITA? 
 
No, the remittance of a foreign-sourced dividend that originates from gains from 
disposal of foreign assets is not subject to tax under section 10L of the ITA. The 
foreign-sourced dividend will be subject to tax under section 10(1) when received 
in Singapore unless it can qualify for tax exemption under section 13(8) or 13(12) 
of the ITA. 

Tax Treatment of Gains or Losses from the Sale of Foreign Assets 
 
 
25 
 
 
15 My entity disposed an IPR that falls within the definition in paragraph 9.4. 
However, my entity does not enjoy the concession under section 43X of 
the ITA. Will the IPR still be considered a qualifying IPR for the purpose of 
section 10L of the ITA? 
 
Where the IPR falls within the definition in paragraph 9.4, it will be regarded as 
a qualifying IPR for the purpose of section 10L of the ITA. This is regardless of 
whether the entity is enjoying the concession under section 43X of the ITA in 
respect of income from the IPR. 
 
16 Why is Singapore not introducing similar exemptions/ reliefs such as a 
participation exemption scheme or intra-group transfer relief like some 
other jurisdictions? 
 
We are mindful that such exemptions/ reliefs will further complicate the tax 
regime as there will be a need to introduce specific anti-avoidance rules. 
Singapore will review our tax measures periodically and may consider these 
exemptions/ reliefs in future if appropriate. 
 
17 My entity is undergoing liquidation and distributes its foreign assets to its 
shareholder as part of liquidation proceeds without receiving any 
consideration. Will this transaction fall within the scope of section 10L? 
 
While there is a disposal of foreign assets by the entity, there are no gains to be 
received in Singapore as there is no consideration received for the disposal. As 
such, the transaction does not fall within the scope of section 10L. 
 
18 Will my entity distributing its foreign assets to its shareholder as payment 
of dividends (i.e. dividends in kind) fall within the scope of section 10L? 
 
While there is a disposal of foreign assets by the entity, there are no gains to be 
received in Singapore as there is no consideration received for the disposal. As 
such, the transaction does not fall within the scope of section 10L. 
 
19 Will section 10L apply to the following situations: 
 
a. a reduction of share capital; 
b. a share buyback to cancel the shares (i.e. not for the purpose of holding 
repurchased shares as treasury shares); or 
c. a share redemption? 
 
The general principle is that there would be a sale or disposal of shares by the 
shareholders where there is a sale or transfer of shares (or any rights or interest 
thereof) in the course of a share capital reduction, buyback or redemption.  
 

Tax Treatment of Gains or Losses from the Sale of Foreign Assets 
 
 
26 
 
There is no sale or disposal for the purposes of section 10L if a share capital 
reduction or redemption involves only the extinguishment or cancellation of 
shares without any transfer of the shares from the shareholders to the company. 
 
20 What will the tax treatment under section 10L be if an entity in Singapore 
with foreign assets is undergoing corporate amalgamation with another 
entity in Singapore? 
 
The transfer of foreign assets under a merger is a sale or disposal under section 
10L, unless the amalgamated company had made an election for the qualifying 
corporate amalgamation under section 34C and section 34CA of the ITA. 
 
For non-qualifying corporate amalgamations, there is a need to apply the source 
rules under section 10L(15) for each foreign asset disposed. 
 
21 My entity’s foreign sourced disposal gains are kept outside Singapore. Will 
the foreign sourced disposal gains be considered as received in Singapore 
from outside Singapore if it is used to pay Singapore one-tier exempt 
dividends to shareholders? 
 
No, the foreign sourced disposal gains will not be considered as received in 
Singapore if such gains are kept outside Singapore and are used to pay 
Singapore one-tier dividends. This is subject to the condition that the Singapore 
one-tier dividends are paid directly into the shareholders’ bank account and does 
not involve any physical remittance, transmission or bringing of funds into 
Singapore by the entity for the dividend payment. 
 
 
 
 

Tax Treatment of Gains or Losses from the Sale of Foreign Assets 
 
 
27 
 
18. 
Updates and Amendments 
 
 
Date of 
amendment 
Amendments made 
1 
9 
December 
2024 
• Editorial changes made to various paragraphs; 
• Paragraphs 8.7 and 8.8 are revised to paragraphs 
8.12 and 8.13. 
• Updated footnote 16 on full-time employees; and 
• Included additional FAQs 2, 3, 8, 15, 17 to 22. 
 
2 
6 June 2025 
• FAQ 22 (A Singapore company sells a foreign 
asset and receives a promissory note as 
consideration. The note document is brought into 
Singapore. Is this considered as remittance of the 
gain from disposal of the foreign asset?) has been 
removed pending further review. 
 
 
 

Tax Treatment of Gains or Losses from the Sale of Foreign Assets 
 
 
28 
 
Annex A – List of Assets which are Determined to be Situated Outside 
Singapore 
 
The situation of property, and any right or interest therein, is determined to be 
situated outside Singapore as follows: 
(a) any immovable property, or any right or interest in immovable property, is 
physically located outside Singapore; 
(b) any tangible movable property, or any right or interest in such property, that is 
not the subject of any paragraph below, is physically located outside Singapore; 
(c) ship or aircraft, or any right or interest in a ship or aircraft, is situated outside 
Singapore if the owner, or the person entitled to the right or interest, is resident 
in a jurisdiction outside Singapore; 
(d) a secured or unsecured debt (other than a judgment debt or securities), or any 
right or interest in such secured or unsecured debt, is situated outside Singapore 
if the creditor is resident in a jurisdiction outside Singapore; 
(e) a judgment debt, or any right or interest in a judgment debt, is situated outside 
Singapore if the judgment is recorded outside Singapore; 
(f) any shares, equity interests or securities issued by any municipal or 
governmental authority, or by any body created by such authority, or any right or 
interest in such shares, equity interests or securities, are situated outside 
Singapore if the authority is established outside Singapore; 
(g) subject to paragraph (f), any shares in or securities issued by a company, or any 
right or interest in such shares or securities, are situated outside Singapore if the 
company is incorporated outside Singapore; 
(h) subject to paragraph (f), any equity interests in any entity which is not a 
company, or any right or interest in such equity interests, are situated outside 
Singapore if the operations of the entity are principally carried on outside 
Singapore; 
(i) subject to paragraph (f) (and despite paragraphs (g) and (h)), any registered 
shares, equity interests or securities, and any right or interest in any registered 
shares, equity interests or securities, are situated outside Singapore if they are 
registered outside Singapore or, if registered in more than one register, if the 
principal register is situated outside Singapore; 
(j) goodwill relating to a trade, business or profession is situated outside Singapore 
if the trade, business or profession is principally carried on outside Singapore; 
(k) any IPR, or any licence or other right in respect of any IPR, is situated outside 
Singapore if the owner of the IPR, licence or right is resident in a jurisdiction 
outside Singapore; 
(l) any intangible movable property, or any right or interest in any intangible 
movable property, that is not the subject of any paragraph above, is situated 
outside Singapore if the ownership rights in respect of the property, right or 
interest is primarily enforceable in a jurisdiction outside Singapore. 

Tax Treatment of Gains or Losses from the Sale of Foreign Assets 
 
 
29 
 
Annex B – Guidance33 on the Core Income Generating Activities in relation to 
the Economic Substance Requirement for Each Sector  
 
The table below covers examples of core income generating activities of some 
industries in relation to the economic substance requirement. 
 
S/N 
Industry 
Core income generating activities 
1. 
Holding company regimes 
To the extent that holding company 
regimes provide benefits only to equity 
holding companies, the substantial activity 
requirement requires, at a minimum, that 
the companies receiving benefits from such 
regimes: 
• Meet all applicable corporate law filing 
requirements for the relevant YA   
• Have the substance necessary to 
engage in holding and managing equity 
participations (for example, by showing 
that they have both the people and the 
premises necessary for these activities) 
 
2. 
Headquarters regimes 
• Making relevant management decisions 
• Incurring expenditures on behalf of 
entities in the same group  
• Co-ordinating group activities 
 
3. 
Distribution and service 
centre regimes 
• Transporting and storing goods  
• Managing the stocks and taking orders  
• Providing 
consulting 
or 
other 
administrative services 
 
4. 
Financing or leasing regimes • Negotiating and concluding funding 
terms  
• Identifying and acquiring assets to be 
leased (in the case of leasing)  
• Setting the terms and duration of any 
financing or leasing 
• Monitoring 
and 
revising 
any 
agreements 
• Managing any risks 
5. 
Fund management regimes 
• Taking decisions on the holding and 
selling of investments 
• Calculating risks and reserves 
 
33 This guidance is extracted from Annex D of the Harmful Tax Practices- 2017 Progress Report on 
Preferential Regimes. 

Tax Treatment of Gains or Losses from the Sale of Foreign Assets 
 
 
30 
 
• Taking decisions on currency or interest 
fluctuations and hedging positions 
• Preparing relevant regulatory or other 
reports for government authorities and 
investors 
 
6. 
Banking and insurance 
regimes 
Banking: 
• Raising funds 
• Managing risk including credit, currency 
and interest risk 
• Taking hedging positions 
• Providing loans, credit or other financial 
services to customers 
• Managing regulatory capital 
• Preparing 
regulatory 
reports 
and 
returns 
 
Insurance: 
• Predicting and calculating risk 
• Insuring or re-insuring against risk  
• Providing client services 
 
7. 
Shipping regimes 
• Managing the crew (including hiring, 
paying, and overseeing crew members) 
• Hauling and maintaining ships 
• Overseeing and tracking deliveries  
• Determining what goods to order and 
when to deliver them 
• Organising and overseeing voyages 
 
 
 
 

Tax Treatment of Gains or Losses from the Sale of Foreign Assets 
 
 
31 
 
Annex C – Example of a Transitional Measure for Tracking and Tracing of 
Expenditures of IP Assets34 
 
Company A is a technology company that sells products which use multiple IP 
assets that it has developed. Prior to 2024, Company A did not track and trace either 
expenditures or income to individual IP assets or products, but it does have 
information on the overall R&D expenditures that it incurred, as well as its overall 
expenditures for related party outsourcing and its overall acquisition costs for 2022 
and 2023. Company A can track and trace to product families starting in 2024. 
Company A’s expenditures are listed below. 
 
Basis Period 
Expenditures 
2022 
Total qualifying expenditures: $5m 
 
Total expenditures: $10m 
 
2023 
Total qualifying expenditures: $3m 
 
Total expenditures: $3m 
 
2024 
Total qualifying expenditures: $2m 
Qualifying expenditures for product family A: $0.4m 
Qualifying expenditures for product family B: $1.6m 
 
Total expenditures: $5m 
Total expenditures for product family A: $2.4m 
Total expenditures for product family B: $2.6m 
 
2025 
Total qualifying expenditures: $2m 
Qualifying expenditures for product family A: $1.3m 
Qualifying expenditures for product family B: $0.7m 
 
Total expenditures: $3m 
Total expenditures for product family A: $2m 
Total expenditures for product family B: $1m 
 
2026 
Total qualifying expenditures: $1m 
Qualifying expenditures for product family A: $0.8m 
Qualifying expenditures for product family B: $0.2m 
 
Total expenditures: $1.6m 
Total expenditures for product family A: $0.8m 
Total expenditures for product family B: $0.8m 
 
Company A uses the three-year “average” as a transitional measure. The nexus 
ratio would be calculated as follows: 
 
34 This example is modified from the example provided in Annex A of the BEPS Action 5 Report. 

Tax Treatment of Gains or Losses from the Sale of Foreign Assets 
 
 
32 
 
In 2024, Company A calculates the nexus ratio using the average of all of its R&D 
expenditures over three years. Total R&D expenditure for 2022 to 2024 is $18m.  
 
The nexus ratio for 2024 would be $10m x 130% / $18m = 0.72. For purposes of 
calculating the three-year average, this ratio does not include any expenditures 
incurred before 2022, even if the R&D to create IP asset began before that time. 
 
In 2025, Company A again calculates the nexus ratio using the average of all of its 
R&D expenditures because it did not yet have three years of expenditures tracked 
to product families. Total R&D expenditures for 2023 to 2025 is $11m. The ratio for 
2025 would be $7m x 130% / $11m = 0.83.  
 
In 2026 and all subsequent years, Company A would transition to a cumulative 
approach using expenditures for product family. Total R&D expenditure on Product 
Family A for 2024 to 2026 is $5.2m. The nexus ratio for Product Family A in 2026 
would therefore be $2.5m x 130% / $5.2m = 0.63. All subsequent qualifying and 
overall expenditures for Product Family A will be added to that ratio in future years.  
 
Total R&D expenditure on Product Family B for 2024 to 2026 is $4.4m. The nexus 
ratio for Product Family B in 2026 would be $2.5m x 130% / $4.4m = 0.74. All 
subsequent qualifying and overall expenditures for Product Family B will be added 
to that ratio in future years. 
 
 
 

Tax Treatment of Gains or Losses from the Sale of Foreign Assets 
 
 
33 
 
Annex D – Computation of Foreign-sourced Disposal Gains 
 
Entity A (with a 31 December financial year-end) acquired shares in Company B, a 
foreign company, on 1 January 2015 for $200,000. To acquire the shares, Entity A 
obtained a loan of $100,000, with 1% interest payable per annum. 
 
On 1 January 2024, the value of the shares is $180,000. 
 
On 31 December 2030, Entity A disposes its shares in Company B for $300,000. To 
dispose the shares, Entity A incurs legal fees of $5,000 and realised foreign 
exchange loss of $1,000 while making the payment of legal fees. Entity A does not 
meet the economic substance requirement for the year 2030.  
 
On 1 January 2031, Entity A remits a gain of $20,000 into Singapore. 
 
The amount subject to tax is calculated as follows: 
 
Gain subjects to tax 
Sales proceeds – Historical cost = $300,000 - $200,000 = $100,000 
 
Total allowable expenditure 
 
S/N Description 
Remarks 
Amount ($) 
1 
Revaluation loss of $20,000 
Not 
deductible 
as 
it 
is 
an 
unrealised loss 
- 
2 
Interest expense of $16,000 
(Financial Year 2015 to 2030, 
16 years) 
Deductible, 
if 
deduction 
had 
not been claimed 
in prior years 
$16,000 
3 
Legal fees of $5,000 
Deductible 
$5,000 
4 
Foreign exchange loss re: 
payment of legal fees of 
$1,000 
Deductible 
$1,000 
 
 
Total $22,000 
 
Amount subjects to tax in YA 2032 
Gain received in Singapore = $20,000 
Apportionment of total allowable expenditure = $20,000 / $100,000 x $22,000 
 
 
 
 
 
 
       = $4,400 
Amount subject to tax in YA 2032 = $20,000 - $4,400 = $15,600 
 
 

Tax Treatment of Gains or Losses from the Sale of Foreign Assets 
 
 
34 
 
Annex E – Illustration of the Utilisation of Losses 
 
Entity A has the following acquisition and disposal of four foreign fixed assets: 
 
• Acquired Foreign Asset A at $200,000 during the financial year 2020 and 
disposes it at $100,000 during the financial year 2023;   
 
• Acquired Foreign Asset B at $300,000 during the financial year 2021 and 
disposes it at $150,000 during the financial year 2024; 
 
• Acquired Foreign Asset C at $500,000 during the financial year 2023 and 
disposes it at $800,000 during the financial year 2026; and. 
 
• Acquired Foreign Asset D at $600,000 during the financial year 2023 and 
disposes it at $400,000 during the financial year 2027. 
 
a) 
Assuming Entity A does not meet the economic substance requirement for 
all the financial years (i.e., 2023, 2024, 2026 and 2027): 
 
- 
The loss of $100,000 from the disposal of Foreign Asset A is not available for 
set off as section 10L comes into effect from 1 January 2024; 
- 
The loss of $150,000 from the disposal of Foreign Asset B is only available for 
set off against the disposal gain from Foreign Asset C in the financial year 2026; 
- 
The gain of $300,000 from the disposal of Foreign Asset C, if received in 
Singapore, is subject to tax and can be set off by the loss on Foreign Asset B or 
trade loss in the year of remittance; and 
- 
The loss of $200,000 from the disposal of Foreign Asset D is available to set off 
remittance of gains in future years (i.e., YA 2028 onwards). For example, if the 
disposal gain of $300,000 from Foreign Asset C is received in Singapore in the 
financial year 2026 (YA 2027), the loss of $200,000 on Foreign Asset D cannot 
be set-off against the gain of $300,000. However, if the disposal gain of $300,000 
from Foreign Asset C is received in Singapore in the financial year 2029 (YA 
2030), the loss of $200,000 on Foreign Asset D can be set-off against the gain 
such that only $100,000 will be subject to tax under section 10L.  
 
b) 
Assuming Entity A meets the economic substance requirement for the 
financial years 2023 and 2024 but not for the financial years 2026 and 2027: 
 
- 
The tax treatment will be the same as described in (a) above, except that the 
loss of $150,000 from the disposal of Foreign Asset B will not be available for 
set off against any gain that is subject to tax under section 10L, because the loss 
of $150,000 would not have been taxable under section 10L had it been a gain. 
 
