 
Tax Treatment of Donations with Benefits 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
IRAS e-Tax Guide 
 
Determining the Date of Payment or Deemed 
Payment for the Purpose of Complying with 
Withholding Tax Obligations 
(Third Edition) 
 
 
 
 
 

Determining the Date of Payment or Deemed Payment for the Purpose of 
Complying with Withholding Tax Obligations 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Published by 
Inland Revenue Authority of Singapore 
 
 
 
 
Published on 30 Jan 2026 
 
First edition on 8 Nov 2021 
Second edition on 18 Aug 2022 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Disclaimers: IRAS shall not be responsible or held accountable in any way for any damage, loss or 
expense whatsoever, arising directly or indirectly from any inaccuracy or incompleteness in the 
Contents of this e-Tax Guide, or errors or omissions in the transmission of the Contents. IRAS shall 
not be responsible or held accountable in any way for any decision made or action taken by you or 
any third party in reliance upon the Contents in this e-Tax Guide. Except where specific contents 
carry legal force, this information aims to provide a better general understanding of taxpayers’ tax 
obligations and is not intended to comprehensively address all possible tax issues that may arise. 
While every effort has been made to ensure that this information is consistent with existing law and 
practice, should there be any changes, IRAS reserves the right to vary its position accordingly. 
 
 
© Inland Revenue Authority of Singapore 
 
All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by 
any means, including photocopying and recording without the written permission of the copyright 
holder, application for which should be addressed to the publisher. Such written permission must 
also be obtained before any part of this publication is stored in a retrieval system of any nature. 

Determining the Date of Payment or Deemed Payment for the Purpose of 
Complying with Withholding Tax Obligations 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents 
 
Page 
 
1 
Aim ...................................................................................................................... 1 
2 
Background ........................................................................................................ 1 
3 
How to determine date of payment for the purpose of complying with 
withholding tax obligations ............................................................................... 2 
4 
Due date to file and pay withholding tax and applicable penalties .................. 4 
5 
Contact information ............................................................................................ 4 
6 
Updates and amendments ................................................................................. 4 
 

Determining the Date of Payment or Deemed Payment for the Purpose of 
Complying with Withholding Tax Obligations 
 
 
 
1 
 
 
 
 
1 
Aim 
1.1 
This e-Tax Guide1: 
 
(i) 
clarifies what constitutes date of payment of income for the purpose 
of complying with the requirement to withhold or deduct tax under 
section 45 of the Income Tax Act 1947 (ITA), as well as under any 
other provisions with similar requirement, where the payment of 
income (other than director’s fees2) is made or deemed to be made 
to a non-resident person; and 
(ii) 
provides details on withholding tax filing and payment due date as 
well as the applicable late payment penalties. 
 
 
2 
Background 
 
2.1 
Section 45 of the ITA provides that where a person is liable to pay to 
another person not known to him to be resident in Singapore (hereinafter 
referred to as “non-resident person”) any interest which is chargeable to 
tax under the ITA, the person making the payment (hereinafter referred to 
as “payer”) shall deduct therefrom tax at the appropriate rate on every 
dollar of the interest and shall immediately give notice of the deduction of 
tax in writing and pay to the Comptroller of Income Tax (CIT) the amount 
so deducted. 
 
2.2 
In a case where the interest liable to be paid is not actually paid over to 
the non-resident person but is “reinvested, accumulated, capitalised, 
carried to any reserve or credited to any account however designated or 
otherwise dealt 
with 
on 
behalf of 
the 
(non-resident) 
person”, 
section 45(8)(b) of the ITA deems the interest as having been paid to the 
non- resident person on the date any of the above event occurs. 
 
2.3 
The withholding tax requirement is also applicable to the payment of 
royalties, management fees, director’s remuneration, professional and 
other service fees etc. to a non-resident person, as provided under 
sections 45A, 45B, 45C, 45D, 45E, 45F, 45G, 45GA and 45H of the ITA. 
 
 
1 This e-Tax Guide replaces IRAS’ e-Tax Guide on “Clarification on Date of Payment of Income for 
the Purposes of Withholding Tax under Section 45 of the Singapore Income Tax Act and Changes 
to the Withholding Tax Regime Which Takes Effect From 1 April 2003” published on 31 Mar 2003. 
2 For director’s fees, generally such fees accrue to director on the date the director’s fees are voted 
and approved at the company’s Annual General Meeting. For further details, please refer to e-Tax 
Guide “Tax Treatment of Director’s Fees and Bonuses from Employment” published on 30 Jan 
2026 The date used to determine when an individual becomes entitled to director’s fees is also one 
of the considerations for the date of payment of fees to non-resident directors for the purpose of 
complying with withholding tax requirement under section 45B of the ITA. 

Determining the Date of Payment or Deemed Payment for the Purpose of 
Complying with Withholding Tax Obligations 
 
 
 
2 
 
 
 
2.4 
Pursuant to section 45(8)(b) of the ITA, withholding tax must be 
accounted for at the earliest of the following dates: 
 
a) when the liability to pay the income arises (i.e. the income is due and 
payable) in accordance with the terms of the agreement or contract. In 
the absence of an agreement or a contract, the date of invoice (further 
explained in paragraph 3.2 below) is regarded as the deemed date of 
payment; 
 
b) when the income is credited to the account of the non-resident person 
(or reinvested, accumulated, capitalised or carried to any reserve or 
any other account however designated, or otherwise dealt with on the 
non-resident’s behalf); and 
 
c) when actual payment of the income is made. 
 
 
3 
How to determine date of payment for the purpose of complying with 
withholding tax obligations 
 
3.1 
Date of payment of income where there is a contract or agreement 
 
3.1.1 Where the date on which income is payable to a non-resident person is 
stipulated under any written contract or agreement, the date of payment of 
the income shall be the due and payable date as stipulated therein. For 
example, if the terms of the agreement provide that royalties at 5% of 
sales shall be payable to the non-resident person at the end of each 
quarter, the date of payment of the royalties for the purposes of 
section 45A of the ITA is deemed to be the last day of each quarter. 
 
3.1.2 However, if there is an additional condition in the agreement that royalty is 
only payable by the Singapore payer upon demand by the non-resident 
person or voluntarily by the Singapore payer, then the date of payment 
will not be the last day of each quarter. The date of payment will now be 
the date printed on the demand note from the non-resident person or the 
date voluntary payment is made by the Singapore payer. Similarly, 
allowable deduction under section 14(1)3 of the ITA will also be given 
based on the date of demand note or voluntary payment date by the 
Singapore payer. 
3.2 
Date of payment of income where demand for payment is in the form of 
invoice 
 
3.2.1 Where the date of payment of the income is not spelt out in any written 
contract or agreement, but instead the demand for payment of the 
income is by way of an invoice from the non-resident person, the date of 
payment is deemed to be the date as printed on the invoice. 
 
3 Section 14(1)(a) may be applicable if the payment is interest or in lieu of interest. 

Determining the Date of Payment or Deemed Payment for the Purpose of 
Complying with Withholding Tax Obligations 
 
 
 
3 
 
 
 
3.2.2 Where the Singapore payer is given an extension of time by the non- 
resident person to make the payment, the deemed date of payment shall 
remain as the date printed on the invoice. This is because the payer’s 
liability to pay arises on the date of the invoice and any credit terms 
extended to the payer are merely an arrangement made between the 
payer and payee to defer actual payment. 
 
3.2.3 To illustrate, suppose a non-resident person issues an invoice dated 
1 Mar to a Singapore payer for management fees in respect of services 
rendered by the former, and the Singapore payer receives the invoice on 
5 Mar. Although a 30-day credit term is given to the payer and the 
Singapore payer makes actual payment on 15 Mar, the date as printed on 
the invoice (i.e. 1 Mar) shall be taken as the deemed date of payment of 
the fees. 
 
3.3 
Date of payment of income where there is an accrual in the payer’s 
account 
3.3.1 If the accrual is a mere accounting entry and the liability to pay the income 
has not arisen, withholding tax obligation will not arise solely due to the 
accrual. 
 
3.3.2 To illustrate, assume that the Singapore payer’s financial year end is 
31 Oct and the interest payment is due on 31 Mar, 30 Jun, 30 Sep and 
31 Dec respectively. For accounting purposes, the Singapore payer 
accrued the interest in the month of October for the financial year end 
31 Oct 2021. 
 
3.3.3 The interest for the month of October is not due until 31 Dec 2021, so the 
withholding tax obligation will not arise on the date of accrual. 
 
3.4 
Date of payment of income where there is no physical pay over of cash 
 
3.4.1 Using the example in paragraph 3.3.2, assume that the non-resident 
person (Payee B) instructed the Singapore payer (Payer A) not to pay 
over the interest on 30 Sep 2021, but to credit it to a designated account. 
The withholding tax obligation arises on 30 Sep 2021 as interest is 
deemed paid. 
 
3.4.2 Using the example in paragraph 3.3.2, assume that Payee B decided to 
ask Payer A not to pay over the interest on 30 Sep 2021, but to pay 
Payee B’s subsidiary, Company C, to settle Payee B’s outstanding liability 
with Company C. The withholding tax obligation arises on 30 Sep 2021 as 
interest is deemed paid. 
 
3.4.3 Using the example in paragraph 3.3.2, assume that on 30 Sep 2021, 
Payee B obtained agreement from Payer A that the interest payable will be 
added to the principal loan amount. The withholding tax obligation arises 
on 30 Sep 2021 as interest is deemed paid. 

Determining the Date of Payment or Deemed Payment for the Purpose of 
Complying with Withholding Tax Obligations 
 
 
 
4 
 
 
 
 
4 
Due date to file and pay withholding tax and applicable penalties 
 
4.1 
Payer is required to file4 and pay the tax withheld to CIT by the 15th of the 
second month from the date of payment of the income to a non-resident 
person. 
4.2 
A late payment penalty of 5% will be imposed5 if the withholding tax is not 
received by CIT by the due date. If the tax remains unpaid 30 days after 
the due date, an additional penalty of 1% may be imposed6 for each 
completed month that the tax remains unpaid, up to a maximum of 15% of 
the unpaid tax. 
 
 
5 
Contact information 
5.1 
For any general enquiries or clarification on this e-Tax Guide, please call 
IRAS 1800-356 8622 (Corporate) or 1800-356 8300 (Individual). For any 
enquiries on payment and filing procedures relating to withholding tax, 
please call 6356 7012. 
 
 
6 
Updates and amendments 
 
Date of 
amendment 
Amendments made 
1 
18 Aug 2022 
The phrases “and no deduction is allowed 
under 
section 14(1) 
or 
14(1)(a)” 
and 
“corresponding accrual will not be allowed as a 
deduction 
for 
the 
financial 
year 
end 
31 Oct 2021 and” have been deleted from 
paragraphs 3.3.1 and 3.3.2 respectively. 
 
2 
30 Jan 2026 
Editorial changes made to General Disclaimer, 
Aim, Background, paragraph 1.1, 2.4, 3.1.2, 
3.2.3, 3.4.2, 5.1. 
 
 
 
4 With effect from 1 Jul 2016, it is compulsory to file withholding tax electronically. 
5 Under section 45(4)(a) of the ITA 
6 Under section 45(4)(b) of the ITA 
