Tax Exemption for Foreign-Sourced Income (Third Edition) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
IRAS e-Tax Guide 
Tax Exemption for Foreign-Sourced Income  
(Fifth Edition) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Tax Exemption for Foreign-Sourced Income (Fifth Edition) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Published by 
Inland Revenue Authority of Singapore 
 
 
 
 
Published on 30 Jan 2026 
 
Fourth edition on 16 Aug 2023 
 
Third edition on 23 Jan 2019 
 
Second edition on 31 May 2013 
 
First edition on 6 Sep 2011 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Disclaimers: IRAS shall not be responsible or held accountable in any way for any damage, loss or 
expense whatsoever, arising directly or indirectly from any inaccuracy or incompleteness in the 
Contents of this e-Tax Guide, or errors or omissions in the transmission of the Contents. IRAS shall not 
be responsible or held accountable in any way for any decision made or action taken by you or any 
third party in reliance upon the Contents in this e-Tax Guide. Except where specific contents carry legal 
force, this information aims to provide a better general understanding of taxpayers’ tax obligations and 
is not intended to comprehensively address all possible tax issues that may arise. While every effort has 
been made to ensure that this information is consistent with existing law and practice, should there be 
any changes, IRAS reserves the right to vary its position accordingly. 
 
© Inland Revenue Authority of Singapore 
All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any 
means, including photocopying and recording without the written permission of the copyright holder, 
application for which should be addressed to the publisher. Such written permission must also be 
obtained before any part of this publication is stored in a retrieval system of any nature. 

Tax Exemption for Foreign-Sourced Income (Fifth Edition) 
 
Table of Contents 
Page 
1. Aim…………………………………………………………………...… 
1 
2. At a glance……………………………………………………………. 
1 
3. Glossary………………………………………………………………. 
2 
4. Background…………………………………………………………… 
3 
5. FSIE scheme…………………………………………………………. 
4 
6. Scope of specified foreign income………………………………. 
4 
7. Foreign-sourced income received in Singapore………………. 
5 
8. Qualifying conditions………………………………………………. 
6 
9. Administrative procedures………………………………………… 
10 
10. Contact information…………………………………………………. 
11 
Annex A – Examples of a fixed place of operation………………… 
12 
Annex B – Illustration on whether tax is paid or payable in a 
foreign country…………………………………………………………… 
13 
 

Tax Exemption for Foreign-Sourced Income (Fifth Edition) 
1 
 
 
 
1 
Aim 
1.1 
This e-Tax Guide provides details on the tax exemption for certain foreign- 
sourced income from 1 Jun 2003 under the foreign-sourced income 
exemption (FSIE) scheme. This e-Tax guide consolidates the three e-Tax 
guides issued previously1 on the FSIE scheme. 
1.2 
It applies to all Singapore tax resident persons receiving foreign-sourced 
income in Singapore. 
 
 
2 
At a glance 
 
2.1 
Under the FSIE scheme, foreign-sourced dividends, foreign branch profits 
and foreign-sourced service income received by specified resident taxpayers 
from 1 Jun 2003 are exempt from tax if the following qualifying conditions are 
met: 
a. “Subject to tax” condition; 
b. “Foreign headline tax rate of at least 15%” condition; and 
c. “Beneficial tax exemption” condition. 
 
2.2 
From 1 Jan 2004, all foreign-sourced income received in Singapore by 
resident individuals, except those received through a Singapore partnership, 
will be exempt from tax where the Comptroller is satisfied that the exemption 
will be beneficial to them. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1 IRAS circulars on tax exemption for foreign-sourced dividends, foreign branch profits and foreign- 
sourced service income: 
• Main circular published on 21 May 2003 
• Two supplementary circulars published on 30 Jul 2004 and 31 May 2006 

Tax Exemption for Foreign-Sourced Income (Fifth Edition) 
2 
 
 
 
2.3 
The FSIE scheme is summarised in the following table: 
 
 
Resident 
individuals (income 
not received 
through a 
partnership in 
Singapore) 
Specified foreign income remitted into Singapore 
from 1 Jun 2003 to 31 Dec 2003 (both dates 
inclusive) are exempt from tax under S13(8)* subject 
to qualifying conditions. 
All foreign-sourced income remitted into Singapore 
from 1 Jan 2004 are exempt from tax under 
S13(7A)(b)* subject to the “beneficial tax exemption” 
condition. 
Resident 
Specified foreign income remitted into Singapore 
from 1 Jun 2003 are exempt from tax under S13(8)* 
subject to qualifying conditions**. 
individuals (income 
received through a 
partnership in 
Singapore) 
Resident persons 
other than 
individuals 
* Sections of the Income Tax Act 1947 (ITA). 
** All qualifying conditions were temporarily lifted for foreign income accrued 
before 22 Jan 2009 and remitted into Singapore from 22 Jan 2009 to 21 
Jan 2010, except for the “beneficial tax exemption” condition. 
 
 
3 
Glossary 
3.1 
Foreign-sourced Income 
 
Foreign income that does not arise from a trade or business carried on in 
Singapore. 
 
3.2 
Person 
 
Under section 2 of the ITA, a person includes a company, body of persons 
and a Hindu Joint Family. 

Tax Exemption for Foreign-Sourced Income (Fifth Edition) 
3 
 
 
 
3.3 
Specified foreign income 
The specified foreign income are: 
a. Foreign-sourced dividend; 
b. Foreign branch profits; and 
c. Foreign-sourced service income. 
3.4 
Specified resident taxpayers 
 
The specified resident taxpayers are: 
 
Period 
Specified Resident Taxpayers 
1 Jun 2003 to 31 Dec 2003 
All persons resident in Singapore 
From 1 Jan 2004 
a. Resident persons other than individuals; 
and 
b. Resident 
individuals 
receiving 
the 
specified 
foreign 
income 
through 
a 
partnership in Singapore2. 
 
 
4 
Background 
4.1 
Prior to 1 Jun 2003, resident taxpayers would be taxed on all foreign-sourced 
income received in Singapore, unless they are tax-exempt3. 
 
4.2 
They may also be taxed on the same foreign-sourced income in the foreign 
countries. To relieve themselves from double taxation, they may claim the 
following tax credits: 
a. Unilateral tax credit under Section 50A of the ITA for income remitted 
from countries with which Singapore does not have a Double Taxation 
Agreement (DTA); 
 
b. Double Taxation Relief under Section 50 of the ITA for income remitted 
from countries with which Singapore has a DTA; or 
 
 
 
 
2 From 1 Jan 2004, all foreign-sourced income received by resident individuals not through a 
partnership in Singapore are exempt from tax under S13(7A)(b) subject to the “beneficial tax 
exemption” condition. 
3 Tax exempt under an approval granted by the Minister for Finance or under a tax incentive granted 
under ITA / Economic Expansion Incentives (Reliefs from Income Tax) Act 1967. 

Tax Exemption for Foreign-Sourced Income (Fifth Edition) 
4 
 
 
 
c. Commonwealth Tax Relief under Section 48 of the ITA for income 
remitted from the Commonwealth countries. This section was repealed 
with effect from Year of Assessment 2010. 
4.3 
To enhance Singapore’s attractiveness as a business hub and to boost our 
services export, it was announced in Budget 2003 and 2004 that tax 
exemption may be given to certain foreign-sourced income. 
 
5 
FSIE scheme 
 
5.1 
The FSIE scheme is provided under Sections 13 (7A) to 13 (11) of the ITA. 
 
5.2 
Specified foreign income received in Singapore on or after 1 Jun 2003 by 
specified resident taxpayers will be exempt from tax where the qualifying 
conditions are met. The conditions are elaborated in paragraph 8. 
5.3 
The tax treatment as described under paragraph 4.2 will continue to apply 
where the qualifying conditions are not met. 
 
5.4 
The tax exemption applies to specified foreign income that does not arise 
from a trade or business carried on in Singapore. Where the foreign income 
arises from a trade or business carried on in Singapore, it remains taxable in 
Singapore upon accrual regardless of whether it is received in Singapore. 
 
6 
Scope of specified foreign income 
 
6.1 
Foreign-sourced dividend 
For the purposes of the tax exemption, a dividend is a foreign-sourced 
dividend if it is paid by a non-Singapore tax resident company. This treatment 
also applies to foreign dividend, which may be the income of a trade or 
business carried on in Singapore by a specified resident taxpayer (e.g. 
dividends received by a bank tax resident in Singapore). In addition, there is 
no shareholding requirement to enjoy the tax exemption. 
 
6.2 
Foreign branch profit 
A foreign branch is a business operation of a Singapore company registered 
as a branch in a foreign country. Foreign branch profits are profits from a 
trade or business carried on outside Singapore by the foreign branch. It 
excludes non-trade or non-business income of the foreign branch. 

Tax Exemption for Foreign-Sourced Income (Fifth Edition) 
5 
 
 
 
6.3 
Foreign-sourced service income 
Service income refers to income from professional, technical, consultancy or 
other services provided by a specified resident taxpayer in the course of its 
trade, profession or business. Such service income is considered foreign- 
sourced if the services are provided through a fixed place of operation in a 
foreign country. If the services are not provided through a fixed place of 
operation in a foreign country, the service income will be considered 
Singapore-sourced even though: 
a. The income is derived from services rendered outside Singapore; and 
 
b. Tax is payable in that foreign country in accordance with the provisions 
of a DTA with the foreign country. 
6.4 
A fixed place of operation refers to a place of management, an office or some 
floor space where the specified resident taxpayer or its employees provide 
the services. A place of operation is considered a fixed place of operation if: 
 
a. It has features of permanence. This is a question of fact. 
 
b. It is at the disposal of the specified resident taxpayer on an on-going 
basis. The mere presence of the specified resident taxpayer in a 
particular location does not necessarily mean that the place is at its 
disposal. For example, a taxpayer visits a major customer’s premises 
regularly to render audit services. This does not mean the premises are 
at the taxpayer’s disposal for the purpose of its trade, profession or 
business. Thus, they do not constitute a fixed place of operation. 
c. The specified resident taxpayer uses it regularly to carry on its trade, 
business or profession of providing services. 
d. The specified resident taxpayer does not use it to perform only auxiliary 
or preparatory activities. 
 
Please refer to Annex A for some examples on whether a place of operation 
is considered a fixed place of operation. 
 
7 
Foreign-sourced income received in Singapore 
 
7.1 
A foreign-sourced income is considered to be received in Singapore when 
the income is: 
a. remitted to, transmitted or brought into Singapore; or 
 
b. applied in or towards satisfaction of any debt incurred in respect of a trade 
or business carried on in Singapore; or 

Tax Exemption for Foreign-Sourced Income (Fifth Edition) 
6 
 
 
 
c. applied to purchase any movable property, which is brought into 
Singapore. 
7.2 
The foreign-sourced income need not be earned on or after 1 Jun 2003. 
However, it has to be received on or after 1 Jun 2003 to qualify for tax 
exemption under the FSIE Scheme. 
 
8 
Qualifying conditions 
 
8.1 
Tax exemption is given to specified resident taxpayers when the following 
conditions are met: 
 
a. “Subject to tax” condition; 
b. “Foreign headline tax rate of at least 15%” condition; and 
 
c. “Beneficial tax exemption” condition. 
 
8.2 
“Subject to tax” condition 
 
To meet this condition, the specified foreign income must have been subject 
to tax in the foreign country from which the income is received. This is 
illustrated in the following table: 
 
Scenario 
Is the “subject to tax” condition 
met? 
• The specified foreign income is 
taxed in country A. 
• The income is remitted back to 
Singapore from Country A. 
Condition is met 
• The specified foreign income is 
exempt from tax in Country A. 
• The income is remitted back to 
Singapore from Country A. 
Condition is not met because no tax 
is suffered in country A. However, if 
the tax exemption is given due to 
substantive 
business 
activities 
carried out in Country A, the 
condition will be regarded as met. 
[See paragraph 8.2(a)] 
• The specified foreign income is 
taxed in country A. 
• The income is moved or reinvested 
in country B. 
• Country B does not levy any income 
tax on the income. 
• The income is remitted back to 
Singapore from country B. 
Condition is not met because no tax 
is suffered in country B. 

Tax Exemption for Foreign-Sourced Income (Fifth Edition) 
7 
 
 
 
a. “Subject to tax” condition for substantive business activities  
 
Some countries give tax exemption on the income of investors who carry 
out substantive business activities4 in their country as tax incentive. 
These investors would be liable to tax if not for the tax exemption. From 
30 Jul 2004, specified foreign income given such tax exemption will be 
regarded as having met the “subject to tax” condition. 
 
b. Foreign-sourced dividend  
 
The Comptroller of Income Tax (CIT) will regard the “subject to tax” 
condition as met although the foreign-sourced dividend may be 
temporarily deposited into a foreign custodian account before its 
remittance into Singapore. Temporarily deposited into a foreign 
custodian account means: 
 
i. 
the dividend is remitted to Singapore within one year from the date 
it was deposited into the foreign custodian account, and 
ii. 
the deposit in the foreign custodian account generates no income 
other than the incidental interest on the standing balance. 
 
Any interest from the foreign custodian account must be segregated and 
not form part of specified foreign income under the FSIE scheme. 
For the purpose of this “subject to tax” condition, tax paid or payable on 
foreign-sourced dividend received in Singapore includes: 
i. 
the dividend tax, which is income tax levied on the dividend by the 
foreign country of source; and 
ii. 
the underlying tax5 , which is income tax paid or payable to the 
foreign countries on the income out of which the dividend is paid. 
 
Annex B provides examples on how to determine if tax has been paid or 
is payable in the foreign countries. 
 
 
 
 
4 Generally, substantive business activities refer to business activities that: 
(a) are carried out through staff with certain expertise (e.g. managing directors, chief financial 
officers, researchers in R&D, factory managers, etc); and 
(b) incurred actual expenditure to carry out the activities. 
The specified foreign income from such activities should have been subject to tax in the foreign 
country if not for the tax exemption incentive given by the country. 
5 If the payer company paid the dividend out of dividend it received from another company, say D, 
which is in the same country, the underlying tax paid by D on the dividend is not to be considered 
as tax paid or payable by the payer company for the purpose of this condition. 

Tax Exemption for Foreign-Sourced Income (Fifth Edition) 
8 
 
 
 
c. Administrative methods to substantiate that underlying tax has been 
paid on the foreign-sourced dividend 
 
Specified resident taxpayers may choose any of the following two 
methods to prove to the CIT that their foreign-sourced dividend has 
suffered underlying tax. Apart from these two methods, they could also 
choose any other method to prove to the CIT’s satisfaction that the 
“subject to tax” condition is met6. Once they have chosen a method, they 
have to apply it consistently. However, where exceptional situations 
warrant a change in the method, the taxpayer may do so only after 
seeking the CIT’s approval. 
Method 1: Comparison of total dividends paid with total taxed profits 
This method is suitable for local holding companies with newly 
incorporated foreign subsidiary companies. They would be in a position 
to track the taxed income of each foreign subsidiary and the dividends 
that each subsidiary has paid out. 
 
The recipient of the foreign-sourced dividend has to track: 
 
i. 
The total dividends paid by the foreign payer company including the 
foreign-sourced dividend; and 
ii. 
The total taxed income of the foreign payer company including 
income subject to tax as capital gains. 
The CIT will consider the “subject to tax” condition met if (ii) is equal or 
greater than (i). 
Method 2: Use of audited accounts of foreign payer company 
This method is suitable for portfolio investors (i.e. having less than 100% 
ownership in the foreign payer company). 
To meet the “subject to tax” condition, the audited accounts of the foreign 
payer company for the financial period ending in the year prior to the year 
when the dividend is received in Singapore must show a positive current 
year tax, excluding deferred tax expense. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6 CIT may update other acceptable methods to prove that the “subject to tax” condition is met on the 
IRAS website from time to time. 

Tax Exemption for Foreign-Sourced Income (Fifth Edition) 
9 
 
 
 
8.3 
“Foreign headline tax rate of at least 15%” condition 
a. The foreign headline tax rate refers to the highest corporate tax rate of 
the foreign country of source in the year the specified foreign income is 
received in Singapore. It must be at least 15%. 
b. The headline tax rate need not be the actual tax rate imposed on the 
specified foreign income in that country. For example, 
 
Date 
Event 
 
2000 
A tax resident in country A paid dividend to Company X, a 
tax resident in Singapore: 
 
Gross dividend 
$10,000 
Less: Tax on dividend (10%) 
 $(1,000) 
Net dividend 
 $9,000 
Company X deposited the $9,000 into its bank account in 
country A 
 
1 Jul 2003 
Company X remitted the $9,000 to Singapore 
Headline tax rate of country A is at least 15% 
Company X satisfied the “foreign headline tax rate” condition as the 
headline tax rate of country A is at least 15% in the year of remittance 
(i.e. 2003). This is notwithstanding the dividend was taxed at only 10 % 
in country A. 
 
c. Foreign special tax legislation 
Effective from 31 May 2006, the headline tax rate is the highest stipulated 
tax rate in the special legislation instead of the highest tax rate in the 
main tax legislation. This applies when: 
 
i. 
the specified foreign income received in Singapore is chargeable to 
tax under a special tax legislation of the foreign country instead of 
its main legislation; 
 
ii. 
the special tax legislation imposes tax at a rate lower than the 
highest tax rate under the main legislation for other companies; and 
iii. 
this lower tax rate under the special tax legislation is not a tax 
incentive for carrying out substantive activities in that foreign 
country (e.g. special tax incentive for income derived from carrying 
out manufacturing activities in Special Economic Zones). 

Tax Exemption for Foreign-Sourced Income (Fifth Edition) 
10 
 
 
 
8.4 
“Beneficial tax exemption” condition 
The CIT must be satisfied that the tax exemption would be beneficial to the 
specified resident taxpayers. Where the CIT considers that the tax exemption 
is not beneficial to them, they can claim reliefs for foreign tax paid (paragraph 
4.2). 
 
9 
Administrative procedures 
 
9.1 
To claim tax exemption 
 
Specified resident taxpayers need not submit documents (such as dividend 
vouchers, notices of assessment issued by foreign country etc) with their 
income tax returns to show that their specified foreign income qualifies for 
the exemption. However, they should retain these supporting documents 
should the CIT request for these documents for verification. 
They only need to declare that their specified foreign income qualifies for the 
tax exemption in their income tax returns and provide the following 
particulars: 
a. Nature and amount of the specified foreign income; 
 
b. Country from which the income is received; 
 
c. Headline tax rate of that country; and 
 
d. Amount of foreign tax paid/payable in that country. 
9.2 
To meet “Subject to tax” condition for substantive business activities 
Specified resident taxpayers need not submit any supporting documents 
together with their income tax returns. However, they should still maintain the 
following documents as the CIT may request for them when reviewing the tax 
returns: 
 
a. A declaration7 that the foreign country has exempted the specified foreign 
income from tax because of substantive business activities carried on by 
the company in that country; and 
b. A copy of the tax incentive certificate/approval letter issued by the foreign 
country. In lieu of this, a foreign dividend voucher stating that the dividend 
is exempt from tax for carrying out substantive business activities in that 
foreign country will suffice. 
 
7 The CIT may, if he thinks fit, request for the submission of other documentary evidence or records 
for the verification of the accuracy of this declaration. 

Tax Exemption for Foreign-Sourced Income (Fifth Edition) 
11 
 
 
 
10 
Contact information 
10.1 
If you have any enquiries or need clarification on this e-Tax Guide, please 
call: 
a. 
1800-3568 622 (Corporate) 
b. 
1800-3568 300 (Individual). 
 
 
11 
Updates and Amendments 
 
Date of 
amendment 
Amendments made 
1 
31 May 2013 
• Revision to Paragraph 9.2. 
2 
23 Jan 2019 
• Revision to Paragraph 2.3 due to deletion of 
S13(8A) to S13(8D) of ITA. 
• Insertion of footnote 2 to Paragraph 3.4. 
• Insertion of footnote 6 to Paragraph 8.2(c). 
• Editorial changes to Paragraphs 2.1, 3.2, 3.3, 
3.4, 4.2, 8.1, 8.2, 8.3, 8.4, 9.1 and 9.2. 
3 
16 Aug 2023 
• Updated the citation of Acts. 

Tax Exemption for Foreign-Sourced Income (Fifth Edition) 
12 
 
 
 
Annex A – Examples of a fixed place of operation 
 
 
Scenario 
Is it a fixed place of operation? 
1 
A Singapore engineering firm rents 
an office in country A merely for the 
purpose of supplying information 
regarding the firm’s expertise. 
No fixed place of operation in country 
A because the services rendered 
through the rented office in country A 
are services that are preparatory or 
auxiliary in character. 
2 
A Singapore law firm rents an office 
on a temporary basis in country B for 
the purpose of carrying out detailed 
research and study relating to the 
only case the firm is appearing 
before a court in country B. 
No fixed place of operation in country 
B because the rented office is of a 
temporary nature. 
3 
A Singapore architect firm has a 
rented office in country C. The office 
is used by a team of architects and 
employees employed from country C 
to undertake one project after another 
on an on-going basis. 
Yes. There is a fixed place of 
operation in country C because the 
office is at the disposal of the firm 
and has features of permanence (i.e. 
a team of employees undertaking 
projects on a long term basis). 

Tax Exemption for Foreign-Sourced Income (Fifth Edition) 
13 
 
 
 
Annex B – Illustration on whether tax is paid or payable in a foreign country 
 
The following examples illustrate whether there is tax paid or payable in a 
foreign country from which a foreign sourced dividend is received for the 
purposes of the tax exemption 
 
 
Example 1 
Example 2 
 
 
 
 
 
Example 3 
Example 4 
 
 
Singapore 
Foreign 
country 
Co. B 
Co. B 
No tax paid by Co. B 
on its operating profit 
out of which dividend 
is paid to Co. C 
No tax paid by Co. B 
on its operating profit 
out of which dividend 
is paid to Co. C 
Co. C 
Co. C 
Dividend withholding 
tax suffered by Co. C 
in the foreign country 
No dividend 
withholding tax 
suffered by Co. C in 
the foreign country 
Tax paid / payable in the foreign country? 
NO 
Tax paid / payable in the foreign country? 
Yes 
Singapore 
Foreign 
country 
Co. B 
Co. B 
Tax paid by Co. B on 
its operating profit 
out of which dividend 
is paid to Co. C 
Tax paid by Co. B on 
its operating profit 
out of which dividend 
is paid to Co. C 
Co. C 
Co. C 
Dividend withholding 
tax suffered by Co. C 
in the foreign country 
No dividend 
withholding tax 
suffered by Co. C in 
the foreign country 
Tax paid / payable in the foreign country? 
YES 
Tax paid / payable in the foreign country? 
Yes 

Tax Exemption for Foreign-Sourced Income (Fifth Edition) 
14 
 
 
 
Annex B - continued 
 
 
Example 5 
Example 6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Singapore 
Both 
companies 
in the 
same 
foreign 
country 
Co. A 
Co. A 
No tax paid by Co. A 
on its corporate profit 
out of which dividend 
was paid to Co. B 
Tax paid by Co. A on 
its corporate profit 
out of which dividend 
was paid to Co. B 
Co. B 
Co. B 
Tax paid by Co. B on 
dividend received 
from Co. A 
No tax paid by Co. B 
on dividend received 
from Co. A 
Co. C 
Co. C 
No dividend 
withholding tax 
suffered by Co. C in 
the foreign country 
No dividend 
withholding tax 
suffered by Co. C in 
the foreign country 
Tax paid / payable in the foreign country? 
NO 
Tax paid / payable in the foreign country? 
YES 
