To claim tax benefits under an Avoidance of Double Tax Agreement (DTA) or a Limited Treaty, Singapore tax resident companies can apply for a Certificate of Residence or seek IRAS’ certification of a tax reclaim form.
On this page:
Certificate of Residence
What is a Certificate of Residence
The Certificate of Residence (COR) is a letter issued by IRAS to certify that the company is a tax resident of Singapore (i.e. the
control and management
of its business is exercised in Singapore) for the purpose of claiming tax benefits under the DTAs or Limited Treaties.
Generally, income derived by a Singapore tax resident company from foreign persons or companies may be subject to tax in that foreign jurisdiction.
Under the
DTAs or Limited Treaties
that Singapore has concluded with foreign jurisdictions
(i.e. DTA partners), Singapore tax residents may enjoy tax benefits (e.g. tax exemptions or lower withholding tax rates) on income derived from the foreign jurisdictions. Non-residents do not enjoy these benefits.
To enjoy such tax benefits, the COR is required by and must be submitted to the tax authority of the DTA partners to prove that the company is a Singapore tax resident generally when claiming such tax benefits. In this regard, Singapore tax resident companies
should submit their COR application to IRAS prior to claiming treaty benefits or at the latest, within 2 calendar years from the actual or expected date of receipt of income if they wish to avail themselves of treaty benefits.
For DTAs with Limitation of Relief provisions, the Singapore tax resident company must meet an additional condition to claim DTA benefits (i.e. it must remit or will remit to Singapore the foreign-sourced income that is taxable in Singapore on a
remittance basis).
Example
ABC Pte Ltd is a Singapore tax resident company. It received royalty income from Company XYZ, who is a tax resident of Australia, and is subject to withholding tax at 30% in Australia.
However, if ABC Pte Ltd submits the COR to the Australia tax authority, it can enjoy a lower withholding tax rate of 10% on the royalty income under the Singapore-Australia DTA.
Letter of Residence
If you are not claiming benefits under the DTA but wish to obtain a letter certifying that the company is a tax resident of Singapore, please complete the
Application for Letter of Residence
.
Who is Eligible for a Certificate of Residence
To obtain a Certificate of Residence (COR), a company must be a
tax resident of Singapore
. Generally, foreign-owned investment holding companies, nominee
companies and non-Singapore incorporated companies are not eligible for a COR.
Foreign-Owned Investment Holding Companies
Foreign-owned investment holding companies with purely passive sources of income and/or receiving only foreign-sourced income, are generally not considered tax residents of Singapore because these companies usually act on the instructions of its foreign
companies/shareholders, and therefore are not eligible for a COR. A foreign-owned company is a company where 50% or more of its shares are held by:
Foreign companies that are incorporated outside Singapore; or
Individual shareholders who are not citizens of Singapore.
The ownership is applied at the ultimate holding company level.
However, IRAS may still issue a COR if these companies can show that:
The control and management of the company's business is exercised in Singapore; and
The company has valid reasons for setting up an office in Singapore.
This includes demonstrating that decisions on strategic matters are made in Singapore (e.g. by showing IRAS that their Board of Directors' meetings are held in Singapore). In addition, to substantiate that the company has a genuine commercial reason for
setting up operations in Singapore, the company must also:
Have at least 1 director based in Singapore who holds an executive position and is not a nominee director;
Have at least 1 key employee (e.g. CEO, CFO, COO) based in Singapore; or
Be managed by a related company based in Singapore (e.g. the related company makes the decisions relating to the operations of the foreign-owned investment holding company or reviews the performance of the investments of the company).
Nominee Companies
Nominee companies are not eligible for a COR as they are not the beneficial owner of the income derived from the DTA partner. A nominee company is a company that acts as a custodian of shares on behalf of the beneficial owners.
Non-Singapore Incorporated Companies
Non-Singapore incorporated companies are generally not eligible for a COR as these companies are not controlled or managed in Singapore. This also applies to Singapore branches of foreign companies, as they are controlled and managed by their overseas parent company.
However, in exceptional situations, IRAS may still issue a COR if these companies can show that:
The control and management of the company's business is exercised in Singapore (i.e. the Singapore branch is exercising the full control and management of the company); and
The company has valid reasons for not incorporating in Singapore.
IRAS may request for additional information on the company.
Variable Capital Companies (VCC)
For tax purposes, a VCC incorporated under the Variable Capital Companies Act 2018 is treated as a company.
To obtain a COR, a VCC must be a tax resident of Singapore. The tax residence of a VCC’s sub-funds is determined at the umbrella level of the VCC. To obtain a COR for its sub-fund, the VCC, and not the sub-fund, has to apply for the COR. The COR
will show the details (tax reference number and name) of the VCC and sub-fund.
How to Apply for a Certificate of Residence
All Certificate of Residence (COR) applications have to be filed via
mytax.iras.gov.sg
, except for
specific circumstances
.
You can apply for a COR via
mytax.iras.gov.sg
for:
The current calendar year
Up to 4 back calendar years
For example, in the calendar year 2021, the company may apply for a COR for the calendar years 2017 to 2021.
The company may also apply for a COR for
1
advance calendar year starting from Oct of the current calendar year.
The COR is granted to the company for the calendar year only if the
control and management
of its business is exercised in Singapore in the specified calendar
year. If the COR is granted for the calendar year 2021, it means that the company is a tax resident of Singapore throughout the calendar year 2021.
For assistance on applying for a COR, refer to these guides:
For Companies:
User Guide - Apply for a COR
(PDF, 741KB)
For Tax Agents:
User Guide – Apply for a COR
(PDF, 749KB)
FAQs on applying for a COR
(PDF, 183KB)
Processing Time
IRAS will process your application within 7 working days of receiving the application.
Once your application is processed, a digital copy of the approved COR will be made available at the
View Notices/ Letters - Corporate Tax
digital service at
mytax.iras.gov.sg
. You may print or download the approved COR.
If your company’s notice preference in the
Update Notice Preferences
digital service is
email notifications
, you will receive an email notification within 1-3 working days that
the digital COR is available at
mytax.iras.gov.sg
. No paper COR will be sent if your company is on email notifications.
If your company’s notice preference in the
Update Notice Preferences
digital service is
paper notices
, you will receive the paper COR at your company’s registered address
within 4 working days.
Learn how to update your company’s
notice preference
.
Specific Circumstances to Apply for a COR in Writing
This is only applicable to companies that are:
Applying for a COR for a sole-proprietorship business owned by the company
Applying for a COR for a partnership business of which the company is a partner
Non-Singapore incorporated
These companies may write to IRAS via
myTax Mail
with the following details:
Name and Unique Entity Number (UEN) of the company/ sole-proprietorship/ partnership
Reason(s) for requesting for the COR
Calendar year for which the COR is required
Name of foreign jurisdiction
Nature and amount of income to be derived from foreign jurisdiction
Name of the foreign company/ person paying the income
Date of remittance of income
Confirmation that the control and management of the business of the company for the whole of the calendar year is/ will be exercised in Singapore
IRAS will process your application within 14 working days from the day complete information is received. The processing time may be longer if the case is complex.
Once your application is processed, a digital copy of the approved COR will be made available at the
View Notices/ Letters - Corporate Tax
digital service at
mytax.iras.gov.sg
. You may print or download the approved COR.
If your company’s notice preference in the
Update Notice Preferences
digital service is
email notifications
, you will receive an email notification within 1-3 working days that
the digital COR is available at
mytax.iras.gov.sg
. No paper COR will be sent if your company is on email notifications.
If your company’s notice preference in the
Update Notice Preferences
digital service is
paper notices
, you will receive the paper COR at your company’s registered address
within 4 working days.
Learn how to update your company’s
notice preference
.
FAQs
Can my company request for duplicate certificates?
You can print a copy of your Certificate of Residence (COR) from
mytax.iras.gov.sg
without incurring a fee. You do not need to submit another application for the COR. Learn
how to view the COR
(PDF, 244KB) via
mytax.iras.gov.sg
.
If you wish to obtain a hardcopy duplicate of the COR from IRAS, you may request for a hardcopy duplicate to be mailed to you at a fee. Find out more about the
procedure to obtain a hardcopy duplicate of the COR
.
Can my company request for a certified true copy of the COR from IRAS, for submission to the foreign tax authorities to claim DTA benefits?
The COR, issued on IRAS’ letterhead, is digitally signed by a Competent Authority of Singapore stated within the list of
Singapore’s Competent Authority for International Tax Agreements
.
DTA partners generally accepts IRAS’ digitally-issued and signed COR without the need for the COR to be wet-inked stamped/ certified as true copy by IRAS. Given so, IRAS will not accept requests for wet-ink stamping/ true copy certification
on our issued CORs.
In rare circumstances where wet-ink stamping/ true copy certification on IRAS-issued COR is a mandatory requirement of the foreign tax jurisdiction, please submit your certification request to ctmail@iras.gov.sg with supporting document(s) showing
the foreign tax jurisdiction’s requirement. Upon examining the document, IRAS will process the request at a fee. IRAS will confirm your request and inform you of the fee payment via a follow-up email to you. Reply to our email with a
copy of the payment confirmation page from your
Internet Banking
* portal webpage. The company should receive the certified COR at its registered business address within 10 working
days from the date of your reply.
*Indicate your company’s tax reference number, followed by ‘search fees’ (e.g. 202012345A search fees) under the “Beneficiary Reference/ Purpose of Payment/ Remittance Information/ Payment Details’ field to avoid delay in payment processing.
Document Search Fees
Fee for Each Page of Document
$20.00
Per certified copy
$3.00
Tax Reclaim Form
What is a Tax Reclaim Form
A Singapore tax resident company applying for DTA benefits under the DTA with a DTA partner may be required to complete and submit a tax reclaim form issued by the DTA partner with or in place of a Certificate of Residence (COR).
The tax reclaim form may require IRAS’ certification that certain conditions, such as Singapore tax residency status, are met before it can be submitted to the foreign tax authority for claiming DTA benefits.
How to Obtain IRAS’ Certification of Tax Reclaim Form
After completing the tax reclaim form, forward the original signed form (i.e. not a photocopy) to IRAS at the following address:
Inland Revenue Authority of Singapore
55 Newton Road
Revenue House
Singapore 307987
Companies forwarding the tax reclaim form for IRAS' certification must ensure that the tax reclaim form is duly completed and signed.
IRAS cannot certify incomplete forms. Examples of incomplete forms include:
Forms not signed by authorised persons
Forms with missing information
Back-dated or post-dated forms. The date indicated on the tax reclaim form should be the current date
Companies who submit incomplete forms have to re-submit duly completed forms if they wish to obtain IRAS’ certification.
IRAS will process the tax reclaim form within 1 month of receiving the duly completed and signed form. In most cases, IRAS processes the tax reclaim form within 2 weeks of receiving the duly completed and signed form.
The certified tax reclaim form and a cover letter will be mailed to the company’s registered address after the application is processed. A duplicate copy of the cover letter will be made available at the
View Notices/ Letters - Corporate Tax
digital
service at
mytax.iras.gov.sg
.
FAQs
Are there any charges imposed for the certification?
No, the certification is free of charge.
Can I submit Indonesia’s tax reclaim forms (DGT Form 1 and DGT Form 2) for IRAS’ certification?
IRAS’ certification is not required on the DGT Forms. Companies only need to submit a Certificate of Residence (COR) together with a completed DGT Form to the Indonesia Tax Authority to claim DTA benefits under the Singapore-Indonesia DTA.
The DGT Forms are valid for the calendar year as stated in the COR. For example, if the COR certifies that a company is a Singapore tax resident for the calendar year 2021, the DGT Form is valid for all payments received or receivable from Indonesia
in the calendar year 2021 (i.e. from Jan 2021 to Dec 2021).
If the payment period or income straddles 2 calendar years, companies can apply for 2 CORs for the relevant calendar years. For example, a company may apply for a COR each for the calendar years 2020 and 2021 to cover a service contract that lasts
from Jul 2020 to Jun 2021.
Pages
Tax Residency of a Company/ Certificate of Residence
Pages
List of DTAs, Limited DTAs and EOI Arrangements