Rights-Based Approach for Characterising Software Payments and Payments for the Use 
of or the Right to Use Information and Digitised Goods 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
IRAS e-Tax Guide 
 
Rights-Based Approach for Characterising Software 
Payments and Payments for the Use of or the Right 
to Use Information and Digitised Goods 
(Third Edition)  

Rights-Based Approach for Characterising Software Payments and Payments for the Use 
of or the Right to Use Information and Digitised Goods 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Published by 
Inland Revenue Authority of Singapore 
 
 
 
 
Published on 30 Jan 2026 
 
First edition on 8 Feb 2013 
Second edition on 15 Jul 2022 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Disclaimers: IRAS shall not be responsible or held accountable in any way for any damage, loss or 
expense whatsoever, arising directly or indirectly from any inaccuracy or incompleteness in the 
Contents of this e-Tax Guide, or errors or omissions in the transmission of the Contents. IRAS shall 
not be responsible or held accountable in any way for any decision made or action taken by you or 
any third party in reliance upon the Contents in this e-Tax Guide. Except where specific contents 
carry legal force, this information aims to provide a better general understanding of taxpayers’ tax 
obligations and is not intended to comprehensively address all possible tax issues that may arise. 
While every effort has been made to ensure that this information is consistent with existing law and 
practice, should there be any changes, IRAS reserves the right to vary our position accordingly. 
 
 
© Inland Revenue Authority of Singapore 
 
All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by 
any means, including photocopying and recording without the written permission of the copyright 
holder, application for which should be addressed to the publisher. Such written permission must 
also be obtained before any part of this publication is stored in a retrieval system of any nature. 
 
 

Rights-Based Approach for Characterising Software Payments and Payments for the Use 
of or the Right to Use Information and Digitised Goods 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents 
 
   1 
Aim………………………………………………………………………....…1 
2 
At a glance ........................................................................................... 1 
3 
Glossary ............................................................................................... 1 
4 
Background ......................................................................................... 2 
5 
Tax treatment before adoption of the rights-based approach ......... 3 
6 
Rights-based approach for characterising specified payments ..... 4 
7 
Examples of payments for copyright rights & copyrighted articles 6 
8 
Administrative procedure ................................................................... 7 
9 
Contact information ............................................................................ 7 
10 Updates and amendments .................................................................. 8 
Annex – Comparison of withholding tax implications ............................ 9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Rights-Based Approach for Characterising Software Payments and Payments for the Use of or 
the Right to Use Information and Digitised Goods 
 
 
1 
 
1 
Aim 
 
1.1 
This e-Tax Guide explains the rights-based approach for characterising 
payments for software and payments for the use of or the right to use 
information and digitised goods (herein referred to as “specified 
payments”). 
 
 
2 
At a glance 
 
2.1 
Payments that do not involve the transfer of the “copyright rights” 
embedded in the goods will be considered as payments for “copyrighted 
articles” instead of “copyrights”. Payments for copyrighted articles are 
characterised as business income and not royalties. Such payments to 
non-resident persons will not fall within the ambit of section 12(7) of the 
Income Tax Act 1947 (“ITA”). 
 
2.2 
The rights-based approach has been adopted with effect from 28 Feb 
2013. Prior to the rights-based approach, withholding tax exemptions 
were granted for software payments and payments for the use of or the 
right to use information and digitised goods. 
 
 
3 
Glossary 
 
3.1 
Complete alienation 
 
A sale where consideration is paid for the perpetual transfer of: 
 
• the full legal and economic ownership; or 
 
• the full economic ownership in respect of a specific geographical 
location, 
 
of the exclusive rights in the copyright that constitutes a distinct and 
specific property. 
 
3.2 
Digitised goods 
 
Text, images or sounds that are transferred through a handphone, fixed-
line phone, cable network, satellite, the internet, or other forms of 
electronic transmission but does not include software. Examples of 
digitised goods include online or downloadable songs, music videos, 
films, books, games, ring tones, logos, and other similar goods. 
 
 
 

Rights-Based Approach for Characterising Software Payments and Payments for the Use of or 
the Right to Use Information and Digitised Goods 
 
 
 
 
2  
 
3.3 
Information 
 
• Any information in any newspaper or magazine article or report, 
including financial and business data (such as foreign exchange, 
stock and property data), and other proprietary data 
 
• Any information obtained solely for research purposes 
 
Payments for information include subscriptions to Bloomberg, Reuters, 
LexisNexis and other similar subscriptions. For purpose of applying the 
rights-based approach, payments for information exclude payments for 
the use of or the right to use patents, trademarks, registered design, 
geographical indications, layout design of integrated circuit, plant variety 
and trade secret. 
 
3.4 
Software 
 
A programme, or series of programmes, containing statements or 
instructions to be used directly or indirectly in a computer to accomplish a 
certain desired result. A software may comprise any media, user manuals, 
documentation, database or similar item if these are incidental to the 
operation of the software. Payments for software include payments for 
downloadable software, software bundled with hardware, software 
licence (site, enterprise or network), limited duration licensed software 
and software product with online elements. 
 
3.5 
Specified payments 
 
Payments for software and payments for the use of or the right to use 
information and digitised goods. 
 
 
4 
Background 
 
4.1 
The delivery models and licensing arrangements for software, information 
and digitised goods such as music and movies have evolved and grown 
over time. There is increased recognition that the payments by end-users 
of software and digitised goods do not involve the transfer of rights to 
exploit the copyrights embedded in the software or goods. Such payments 
are for the copyrighted articles rather than the embedded copyrights. 
 
4.2 
In line with international practices, the adoption of the rights-based 
approach in characterising specified payments will provide more certainty 
for payers. 
 
 
 
 

Rights-Based Approach for Characterising Software Payments and Payments for the Use of or 
the Right to Use Information and Digitised Goods 
 
 
 
 
3  
 
5 
Tax treatment before adoption of the rights-based approach 
 
5.1 
Software payments 
 
5.1.1 
Previously, all payments for the use of software are classified as royalty 
payments for tax purposes. Royalty payments made to non-resident 
persons are deemed to be sourced in Singapore under section 12(7)(a) of 
the ITA. Accordingly, a payer has to withhold tax under section 45A of the 
ITA on such payments made to a non-resident person at the rate of 10%1, 
or such reduced rate as provided under a tax treaty. 
 
5.1.2 
Withholding tax exemption is granted for 4 categories of software 
payments, covering the following transactions for end-users of: 
 
a. Shrink-wrap software; 
b. Site-license; 
c. Downloadable software; and  
d. Software bundled with computer hardware. 
 
5.1.3 
To qualify for the exemption, the payer must not have obtained any right to 
exploit the copyright of the software, including any right to duplicate, 
modify, reverse engineer or decompile the software. 
 
5.2.1 Payments for the use of or the right to use information and digitised goods 
 
5.2.2 Payments for information are treated as payments for the use or right to 
use “scientific, technical, industrial or commercial knowledge”.  Under 
section 12(7)(b) of the ITA, such payments to a non-resident person are 
deemed to be sourced in Singapore and subject to withholding tax under 
section 45A of the ITA. 
 
5.2.3 Payments for the use or right to use digitised goods like downloadable 
music, movies and books may also be treated as royalty payments under 
section 12(7)(a) or payments for information under section 12(7)(b) of the 
ITA, depending on the specific nature of the digitised goods. 
 
5.2.4 Withholding tax exemption is granted for payments to non-resident persons 
by end-users for information and digitised goods3.  An end-user must not 
acquire the right to exploit the copyright of the information or digitised 
goods. Instead, the end-user is only given the right to use the information 
or digitised goods for personal consumption or for use within his business 
operations. 
 
 
1 Section 43(3A) of the ITA 
3  The withholding tax exemption expired on 28 Feb 2013. 

Rights-Based Approach for Characterising Software Payments and Payments for the Use of or 
the Right to Use Information and Digitised Goods 
 
 
 
 
4  
6 
Rights-based approach for characterising specified payments 
 
6.1 
Scope 
 
6.1.1 
The rights-based approach sets out the framework for characterising 
specified payments. 
 
6.2 
Principles of the rights-based approach 
 
6.2.1 
The rights-based approach characterises a payment based on the nature 
of the rights transferred in consideration for the payment. It draws a 
distinction between the transfer of a “copyright right” and the transfer of a 
“copyrighted article” from the owner to the payer. 
 
Copyright right 
 
6.2.2 
A transaction involves a copyright right if the payer is allowed to 
commercially exploit the copyright. The term “commercially exploit” means 
to be able to: 
 
a. 
reproduce, modify or adapt and distribute the software, 
information or digitised goods; or 
 
b. 
prepare a derivative work based on the software, information or 
digitised goods for distribution. 
 
6.2.3 
Generally, the payer is granted the use of the software, information or 
digitised good in a manner (i.e. to exploit the rights that would otherwise 
be the sole privilege of the copyright holder) that will, without such granting 
of use, constitute an infringement of the copyright. 
 
  Copyrighted article 
 
6.2.4 
Generally, A copyrighted article is transferred if the rights are limited to 
those necessary to enable the payer to operate the software or to use the 
information or digitised goods, for personal consumption or for use within 
his business operations. In many instances, the user is provided with a 
copy of the product which is downloaded to a device for use. Any right 
obtained to enable the end-user to copy the digital signal onto a media is 
incidental to the process in which the content is captured and stored and 
does not constitute a transfer of the copyright right. 
 
6.2.5 
In some cases, a payer may obtain multiple rights in one payment. In 
determining whether a payment is for the right to use a copyrighted article 
or a copyright right, the primary purpose of the payment will be examined. 
For example, where a customer downloads a book for personal 
enjoyment, the payment is primarily for the acquisition of a copyrighted 
article (i.e. a copy of a book). To the extent the act of copying the digital 
signal onto the customer’s device involves a right to copy the content, 

Rights-Based Approach for Characterising Software Payments and Payments for the Use of or 
the Right to Use Information and Digitised Goods 
 
 
 
 
5  
such a right is ancillary and incidental. It corresponds to what the payment 
is essentially in consideration for (i.e. payment for a copyrighted article). 
 
6.3 
Tax treatment of copyright right versus tax treatment of copyrighted article 
 
 
  Copyright right 
 
6.3.1 
Where a payment is made to a copyright owner for the transfer of partial 
rights in the copyright as in the case of licensing of the copyright to be 
exploited by the payer, the payment is a royalty. When such a payment is 
made to a non-resident person, it is subject to withholding tax. 
 
6.3.2 
Adopting the rights-based approach to characterise specified payments 
will not result in any change in the tax treatment adopted previously. 
Royalty payments arising from a partial transfer of the copyright right will 
continue to be treated as royalties or payments for the use of or right to 
use movable properties or information under section 12(7) of the ITA. 
Withholding tax under section 45A remains applicable if the payments are 
made to a non-resident person. 
 
6.3.3 
As for payments made to the copyright owner for a complete alienation of 
his copyright in the software, information or digitised goods, the 
transaction is a sale of the copyright. In the hands of the copyright owner, 
any gains derived by him from such a transaction constitutes either his 
business income (if the copyright right constitutes his stock in trade) or 
capital gains. When the sale consideration is paid to a non-resident 
person, the payment is not subject to withholding tax. This treatment 
remains under the rights-based approach. 
 
Copyrighted article 
 
6.3.4 
As explained in paragraph 6.2.4, a payment for a copyrighted article is not 
royalty payment. Such payments made to a non-resident person will thus 
not fall within the ambit of section 12(7) of the ITA. The non-resident 
person will not be taxable on such payments unless the payments 
constitute income derived from a trade or business carried on by him in 
Singapore or income effectively connected with any permanent 
establishment of that person in Singapore. Accordingly, the payer will not 
be required to withhold tax under section 45A when he makes such 
payments to the non-resident person4. 
 
 
 
4 However, where the payments constitute income derived from a trade, business, profession 
or vocation carried on or exercised by the non-resident in Singapore, or which is effectively 
connected with any permanent establishment of that person in Singapore, the non-resident 
person is required to file an income tax return to declare the income which is subject to tax in 
Singapore. 
 

Rights-Based Approach for Characterising Software Payments and Payments for the Use of or 
the Right to Use Information and Digitised Goods 
 
 
 
 
6  
6.3.5 
Please refer to the Annex for a comparison of the withholding tax 
implications for payments made to a non-resident owner under the 
previous treatment (prior to 28 Feb 2013) and the rights-based approach. 
 
7 
Examples of payments for copyright rights & copyrighted articles 
 
7.1 
Payments for Software 
 
By a distributor (without the right to reproduce copies of software) 
 
7.1.1 
The distributor is granted the right to distribute software by the software 
or copyright owner but does not have the right to reproduce copies of the 
software. Typically, the software is maintained in a server that is operated 
by the software or copyright owner. When the distributor makes a sale, 
he provides the customer with a ‘key’ for the customer to access and 
download the software directly from the software owner’s server. The 
distributor is not considered to be commercially exploiting the copyright 
rights in the software. Accordingly, payments made by the distributor to 
the software or copyright owner are treated as business income in the 
latter’s hands. 
 
By a distributor (with the right to reproduce copies of software) 
 
7.1.2 
The software or copyright owner may arrange for the master files of the 
software to be hosted on the distributor’s server. Upon making a purchase, 
the customer downloads a copy of the software from the distributor’s 
server. In this case, the distributor is arguably given the right to make 
copies of the software for distribution. The payments or part of the 
payments made by the distributor to the software or copyright owner may 
constitute royalties. Nonetheless, IRAS recognises that the specific 
arrangements and rights conferred in each case vary and the fact that 
customers may download the software directly from the distributor’s server 
is not conclusive that the payments are for copyrights. IRAS is therefore 
prepared to examine the facts of such a case in determining the character 
of payments made to the software or copyright owner. 
 
By an end-user 
 
7.1.3 
The end user purchases a software. The payment for which includes an 
amount for maintenance and support services incidental to the purchase of 
the software. The full amount, including that amount for maintenance and 
support, is characterised as payments for a copyrighted article. 
 
7.1.4 
The end user may make payments for additional services such as 
subsequent software maintenance and support services, user training, 
customisation and development of add-on applications by building onto the 
existing basic software. These are not within the scope of application of 
the rights-based approach. Such payments for services may fall within the 
scope of section 12(7)(b) of the ITA and be deemed sourced in Singapore. 

Rights-Based Approach for Characterising Software Payments and Payments for the Use of or 
the Right to Use Information and Digitised Goods 
 
 
 
 
7  
Withholding tax on payments to non-resident persons may then apply. 
 
7.2 
Payments for movie or film 
 
7.2.1 
Payment made to acquire a copy of a movie or film, say through a 
download or on some magnetic media, is treated as payment for a 
copyrighted article if the payer is not given the right to commercially exploit 
the movie or film. Generally, the payer acquires a copy of the movie for his 
private viewing and enjoyment. He is not allowed to screen the movie 
publicly, or to re-distribute the movie. 
 
7.2.2 
On the other hand, if the payer is a cinema operator or an airline entity that 
acquires the movie for the purpose of screening to its customers, the 
payment to the non-resident is a royalty for the use of the copyright right in 
the movie and is subject to withholding tax. 
 
 
7.3 
Payments for information (i.e. subscription payments to information 
providers such as Bloomberg or Lexis-Nexis) 
 
7.3.1 
Banks and research houses may pay information providers for information 
to service their customers. Generally, such payments allow the analysts to 
make use of information to support their work or generate reports for 
customers. The use of information is generally not considered to be 
commercial exploitation of the information if its use is to support the work 
done by the analyst and not a mere reproduction and onward distribution 
of the information. This means that the usage of information is limited both 
qualitatively and quantitatively . Such payments are considered as 
payments for copyrighted articles. 
  
8 
Administrative procedure 
 
8.1 
No approval is required for the application of the rights-based approach. 
To determine the correct tax treatment to be applied, taxpayers only need 
to ascertain the nature of payments using the rights-based approach. 
Proper supporting documents such as licence agreements, intercompany 
agreements and invoices are to be maintained and be provided to IRAS 
upon request. For taxpayers who wish to obtain upfront certainty on the 
character of any specified payments, such cases may be referred to IRAS 
under the Advance Ruling process. 
 
9 
Contact information 
 
9.1 
If you have any enquiries or need clarification on this e-Tax Guide, please 
call 1800-356 8300 (Individual) or 1800-356 8622 (Corporate). 
 
 
 
 

Rights-Based Approach for Characterising Software Payments and Payments for the Use of or 
the Right to Use Information and Digitised Goods 
 
 
 
 
8  
 
10 
Contact information 
 
 
 Date of amendments 
Amendments made 
1 
15 Jul 2022 
Removed footnote for the 2 e-Tax 
guides 
on 
withholding 
tax 
exemptions that are no longer 
applicable/available on the website. 
2 
30 Jan 2026 
Editorial changes made to general 
disclaimer 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Rights-Based Approach for Characterising Software Payments and Payments for the Use of or 
the Right to Use Information and Digitised Goods 
 
 
 
 
9  
 
Annex – Comparison of withholding tax implications 
 
Type 
of 
Payment 
Purpose 
Treatment (Prior to 28 
Feb 2013) 
Current Treatment - 
Rights-Based Approach 
Software 
payment 
For 
the 
complete 
alienation of 
copyright 
rights 
in 
software 
Owner 
derives 
business 
income or capital gains. 
Withholding 
tax 
is 
not 
applicable. 
No change in tax treatment. 
For the use 
of software 
Owner derives royalty income 
deemed sourced in Singapore 
under section 12(7)(a) of the 
ITA. 
Withholding 
tax 
applies, 
except for the 4 specific 
categories 
of 
software 
payments made by end-users 
(see paragraph 5.1.2). 
Owner derives royalty income 
if there is a partial transfer of 
rights permitting the payer to 
commercially 
exploit 
the 
rights. Withholding tax applies 
to royalty. 
Where no such rights are 
transferred or licensed, the 
owner 
derives 
business 
income from the transfer or 
license 
of 
a 
copyrighted 
article. Withholding tax is not 
applicable. 
Information 
and digitised 
goods 
For 
the 
complete 
alienation of 
copyright 
rights 
in 
information 
or 
digitised 
goods 
Owner 
derives 
business 
income or capital gains. 
Withholding 
tax 
is 
not 
applicable. 
No change in tax treatment. 
For the use 
of 
information 
or 
digitised 
goods 
Owner derives income from 
payments made for the use of 
or right to use movable 
properties 
or 
information. 
Such 
income 
is 
deemed 
sourced in Singapore under 
section 12(7)(a) or (b) of the 
ITA. 
Withholding 
tax 
applies, 
except where payments are 
made by end-users and fall 
within 
the 
scope 
of 
the 
withholding 
tax 
exemption 
granted 
(see 
paragraph 
5.2.3). 
Owner derives royalty income 
or income from payments 
made for the use of or right to 
use movable properties or 
information 
if 
the 
partial 
transfer of the rights allows the 
payer to commercially exploit 
the rights. Withholding tax 
applies to such payments. 
Where no such rights are 
transferred or licensed, the 
owner 
derives 
business 
income from the transfer or 
license 
of 
a 
copyrighted 
article. Withholding tax is not 
applicable. 
 
