Control and Management
Under Singapore tax law, the tax residency of a company is determined by
where the business is controlled and managed
. The residency status of a company may change from year to year.
Generally, a company is considered a Singapore tax resident for a particular Year of Assessment (YA) if the control and management of its business was exercised in Singapore in the preceding calendar year. For example, a company is a Singapore
tax resident for YA 2025 if the control and management of its business was exercised in Singapore for the whole of 2024.
A company is a non-resident when the control and management of its business is not exercised in Singapore.
'Control and management' is defined as the
making of decisions on strategic matters, such as those concerning the company’s policy and strategy
. Where the control and management of a company is exercised is a question of fact.
Usually, the
location of the company's Board of Directors meetings
where strategic decisions are made determines where the control and management is exercised.
Under certain scenarios
, holding Board of Directors meetings in Singapore
may not be sufficient
and IRAS will consider
all facts
provided by the company to determine if the control and management of the business is indeed exercised in Singapore.
Factors considered by IRAS include the following:
Whether there is any board of directors' meetings held in Singapore
Whether any strategic decisions are made at the board of directors' meetings held in Singapore
Whether the directors are based in or outside Singapore
Whether any strategic decisions are made by the local director in Singapore
Whether there are key employees based in Singapore
The place of incorporation of a company is not necessarily indicative of the tax residency of a company.
A Board of Directors meeting which involves the use of
virtual meeting technology
will generally be regarded as having strategic decisions made in Singapore if either of the following conditions is met:
At least 50% of the directors (with the authority to make strategic decisions) are physically in Singapore during the meetings; or
Chairman of the Board of Directors (if the company has such an appointment) is physically in Singapore during the meeting.
Virtual meeting technology means any technology that allows a person to participate in a meeting without being physically present at the place of meeting.
Foreign-Owned Investment Holding Companies
Foreign-owned investment holding companies
1
, with purely passive sources of income and/ or receiving only foreign-sourced income, are generally not considered tax residents of Singapore because these companies usually act on the instructions of
its foreign companies/ shareholders.
However, they may still be treated as Singapore tax residents if they can satisfy certain
conditions
.
1
A foreign-owned company is a company with 50% or more of its shares held by:
Foreign companies which are incorporated outside Singapore; or
Individual shareholders who are not citizens of Singapore.
The ownership is to be applied at the ultimate holding company level.
Non-Singapore Incorporated Companies and Singapore Branches of Foreign Companies
Non-Singapore incorporated companies and Singapore branches of foreign companies are controlled and managed by their foreign parent. They are not considered tax residents of Singapore.
However, they may still be treated as Singapore tax residents if they can satisfy certain
conditions
.
Companies whose tax residency status may be affected by the travel restrictions due to COVID-19 can refer to
COVID-19 Support Measures and Tax Guidance For Businesses
for more information.