Guide on how to avoid common errors made by payers
Filing Withholding Tax (WHT)
Common errors
What you need to know/ do
Common errors when filing WHT
Wrongly declaring the date of payment to non-resident (for all nature of payment except director’s fees)
The date of payment is defined as the
earliest
of the following dates:
When the payment is
due and payable
based on the agreement or contract, or the date of the invoice in the absence of any agreement or contract (credit terms should not be taken into consideration);
When payment is credited to the account of the non-resident or any other account(s) designated by the non-resident, not necessary a bank account;
The date of actual payment.
You are required to take into consideration
all the above-mentioned dates
and declare the
earliest date
as the date of payment in the WHT form.
Wrongly declaring the date of payment for director’s fees
The date of payment is defined as the
earliest
of the following dates:
When the payment is
due and payable
under the following scenarios:
Director's fees approved in
arrears
For director's fees approved in arrears, the director has already rendered the requisite services for the accounting
year concerned. However, the director's fees must be disclosed to and approved by members of the company before they can be paid to him. Hence, the earliest date on which the director is entitled to the director's fees,
is the date the fees are voted and approved at the company's AGM.
Director's fees approved in
advance
For director's fees approved in advance, the director may not have rendered the requisite services for the accounting year concerned when the fees are approved at the company's AGM. Hence, the earliest date on
which the director can be entitled to the director's fees, is as and when he renders his services.
When payment is credited to the account of the non-resident or any other account(s) designated by the non-resident, which need not necessarily be a bank account
The date of actual payment.
You are required to take into consideration
all the above-mentioned dates
and declare the
earliest date
as the date of payment in the WHT form.
Declaring
Yes
under
Tax Borne by Paye
r
when tax was withheld from the amounts payable/ paid to the non-resident
You should only indicate
Yes
under
Tax Borne by Payer
in the WHT form when you are
contractually liable
to bear the WHT on the payment to a non-resident.
Paying the tax withheld from payment to a non-resident to IRAS is not considered ‘tax borne by payer’ as the payment is made on behalf of the non-resident who bears the tax.
Failing to follow correct steps when submitting multiple WHT forms under one submission
To submit multiple forms under
one
submission, please follow these steps:
Select
File more forms /Approve more forms
after preparing or approving the last form instead of clicking
Submit
.
Under the S45 tab, click on
Submit S45 Forms
and perform a wild search without keying in any search criteria. The search results will show all the forms you have filed/ approved.
Check all the forms that you wish to submit to IRAS.
Complete the Declaration and proceed to submit.
Declaring the name of non-resident based on its trading name/ inter-company abbreviation
You should declare the name of the non-resident based on its legal name/ registered name. The non-resident’s name should be stated in full without abbreviations (i.e. short form), prefix or suffix unless it is part of the legal/
registered name. Avoid adding spacing or punctuation marks such as full stop, comma.
If you are claiming Double Taxation Relief, then you must make sure that the name of the non-resident stated in the Certificate of Residence is the same as the name declared in your WHT filing.
Failing to upload the ODE file into
mytax.iras.gov.sg
and prompted with the message:
'A previous version of the Offline Data Entry Application has been detected. Please update your application by re-launching it'.
Please delete the ODE application, and then re-install the latest version of the ODE application from the
IRAS website
.
To delete the existing ODE application, please follow the steps below:
Launch
Configure Java
in your computer's Start Menu
In
Java Control Panel
, under the tab
General
, click on
View...
button
Java Cache Viewer
will be launched:
Choose
Show: Applications
Select
S45 Offline Data Entry Application
Click
to delete the ODE application
After deleting, click
Close
in the
Java Cache Viewer
Click
OK
in
Java Control Panel
Claiming Double Taxation Relief (DTR)
Common errors
What you need to know/ do
Common errors when filing DTR
Failing to file WHT when claiming tax exemption under DTR
You are required to file WHT even if you are claiming tax exemption (i.e. 0% tax rate) under the Avoidance of Double Taxation Agreement (DTA) or Approved Royalties Incentive (ARI).
To claim tax relief under the DTA, please select the
Double Taxation Relief
option under the
Relief/ Incentive
section in the WHT form and ensure that the Certificate of Residence (COR) is submitted by
the due date.
Filing and paying WHT only after receiving the COR
Due date to file and pay WHT
As a payer, you are required to file and pay WHT to IRAS by the 15th of the second month from the date of payment to the non-resident.
Due date to submit COR
31 Mar of the following year if the claim is for the current year.
Within 3 months from the date of WHT submission if the claim is for preceding calendar years.
Therefore, you may file and pay WHT based on the reduced rate available in the relevant DTA and submit the relevant COR subsequently.
However, if you are uncertain whether the non-resident will provide you with the COR or whether the non-resident is a tax resident of the DTA treaty country/region, please withhold and pay WHT at the prevailing domestic rate to avoid late
payment penalties for underpayment of WHT. If you manage to obtain the COR from the non-resident subsequently, you may submit an online
filing amendment form
with the COR uploaded to request for a refund.
Submitting non-resident’s COR
Common errors
What you need to know/ do
Common errors made when submitting non-resident's COR
Submitting the COR of the non-resident based on the WHT filing date
The COR should cover the
period of payment
declared in the WHT form. Examples are provided in the table below.
Period of payment
Year of COR to be submitted
12 Aug 2024 to 14 Aug 2024
2024
12 Dec 2025 to 31 Dec 2025
2025
01 Jan 2026 to 31 Mar 2026
2026
Submitting another document (i.e. Certificate of Incorporation, Certificate of Business Registration, Trade License, Letter from non-resident) as a substitute for COR
No other documents will be accepted as a substitute for COR. The COR must meet the following requirements to be accepted:
Certified by the foreign tax authority of the non-resident
Be in English
Clearly state that
the non-resident company is a resident of the foreign country/region for DTA purposes and
the year(s) that the COR is applicable for.
One COR may be accepted for multiple years if the relevant years are clearly stated in the COR.
The COR will not be accepted if the name of the non-resident stated in the COR is different from the name declared in the WHT filing.
Making payment for WHT
Common errors
What you need to know/ do
Common errors made when making payment for WHT
Remitting withheld amount to IRAS without/ before filing the WHT form
You should file the WHT form
before
making any payment. If you are not under GIRO for payment of WHT, you should quote the 14-digit payment slip number found on the filing
acknowledgement page when making payment.
If you receive an outstanding payment letter even though you have already made payment, you may write to us at
enfs45@iras.gov.sg
with a copy of the payment advice and/ or bank statement and the related acknowledgement
page of the filed WHT form.
Quoting multiple payment slip numbers in one single electronic payment to IRAS
For every 14-digit payment slip number that you get after filing, you should make a separate electronic payment. Only one payment slip number should be quoted in each electronic
payment to IRAS.
To avoid having multiple payment slip numbers when you submit multiple WHT forms, please follow the steps below so that only one payment slip number will be generated for multiple WHT forms submission:
Click
File more forms/Approve more forms
after validating the details at the consolidated page.
Continue with the remaining records.
Select
File more forms/Approve more forms
after preparing or approving the last form instead of clicking
Submit
.
Under the S45 tab, click on
Submit S45 Forms
and perform a wild search without keying in any search criteria. The search results will show all the forms you have filed/ approved.
Check all the forms you wish to submit to IRAS.
Complete the Declaration and proceed to submit.
A single payment slip number will be generated for all the records that were submitted together.
FAQs
What is the date of payment to the non-resident to be declared?
Below are some scenarios to help payers determine the date of payment to the non-resident
Scenarios
Date of payment to the non-resident
Filing and payment due date
Technical assistance fees
A non-resident company issued an invoice dated 26 Mar 2025 to a payer for technical assistance fees in respect of services rendered. The invoice
stated that the amount must be paid within 30 days. The payer received the invoice on 30 Apr 2025 and paid the non-resident on 19 May 2025.
26 Mar 2025 (based on invoice date)
15 May 2025
For GIRO payer, deduction takes place on 26 May 2025.
Royalty payment
The agreement stated that royalties at 5% of sales shall accrue to the non-resident person at the
end of each quarter
.
In this instance, the royalty period from Apr to Jun 2025 was accrued on 30 Jun 2025 (end of quarter), and the royalty payment was made to the non-resident on 15 Jul 2025.
30 Jun 2025 (based on date of accrual)
15 Aug 2025
For GIRO payer, deduction takes place on 25 Aug 2025.
Director’s fee
The director’s fee of $50,000 for the period from 01 Jan 2024 to 31 Dec 2024, was voted and approved in the company's Annual General
Meeting (AGM) on 2 Jul 2025. However, the fee was only paid to the director on 29 Sep 2025.
2 Jul 2025 (based on AGM date)
15 Sep 2025
For GIRO payer, deduction takes place on 25 Sep 2025.
Pages
Voluntary disclosure of errors for reduced penalties
Useful Links
Filing Amendment Form (For Business Payer)
Useful Links
Filing Amendment Form (For Tax Agent/ Individual Payer)
Useful Links
Submit COR