Frequently Asked Questions on online filing of Section 45 Withholding Tax  
Q1. 
Who can file for Withholding Tax? 
 
Q2.  
Is there a limit to the number of records my organisation can file? 
 
Q3. 
Are there other payment modes for Withholding Tax besides GIRO? 
 
Q4. 
I do not have the full address of the payee, but the field is mandatory. What should I 
do? 
 
Q5 
I do not have the Payee’s ID. What should I do? 
 
Q6. 
How to file if Period of Payment overlaps 2 or more calendar years? 
 
Q7. 
Can I save the form without having to submit it to IRAS? 
 
Q8. 
How to retrieve the draft that I have just saved? 
 
Q9. 
Who can retrieve/ view the saved draft? 
 
Q10. 
Is ‘Submit to Approver’ considered a submission to IRAS? 
 
Q11. 
What is the time frame for my approver to approve my submission? 
 
Q12. 
How do I know if my submission was successful? 
 
Q13. 
After filing, do I need to save or print the Consolidated Statement/ Acknowledgement 
Page? 
 
Q14. 
How do I amend a record which I have submitted? 
 
Q15. 
If I am under GIRO and IRAS have processed an amendment which results in change in 
tax payable, how soon will I be able to see the updated GIRO Plan details? 
 
Q16. 
When will I get the Confirmation of Payment letter? 
 
Q17. 
What should I do when I encounter error when filing for Withholding Tax? 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
Q1. Who can file for Withholding Tax? 
 
A1. You can authorise the following personnel to file Withholding Tax via our e-Services. 
a. 
Staff/ Tax agents  
b. 
The sole proprietor (NRIC holder) of the business 
 
Only a staff or tax agent who has been authorised as an Approver via Corppass, can submit 
S45 filings to IRAS.  
 
Back to top 
 
Q2. Is there a limit to the number of the records my organisation can file? 
 
A2.  There is no limit to the number of records an organisation can file but do not submit the same 
record twice as duplicate payment will then be required from you.  
 
Back to top 
 
Q3. Are there other payment modes for Withholding Tax besides GIRO? 
A3.  Yes, you may pay refer to IRAS Payments website for the other payment modes available for 
Withholding Tax. 
 
GIRO is, however, the preferred mode of payment. 
 
Back to top 
 
Q4. I do not have the full address of the payee, but the field is mandatory. What should I do? 
A4.  You may indicate the country/region of residence of the payee under the address field if you do 
not have the payee’s full address.  
Back to top 
 
Q5. I do not have the payee’s ID. What should I do? 
A5.  If you do not have the payee’s ID, you may leave the field blank as it is an optional field. Please 
ensure that the dropdown list for types of identity no. remains at ‘Please select’ before 
proceeding further. 
Back to top 
 
Q6. How to file if the Period of Payment overlaps 2 or more calendar years? 
A6.  If the period of payment is more than 1 year, please apportion the taxable income and file a 
separate submission for each calendar year.  
 
Example:  
 
Period of Payment is from 01 Dec 2024 to 31 Jan 2025 

 Withholding Tax submission (1) -> Indicate the Period of Payment as 01 Dec 2024 to 31 Dec 
2024 
 
Withholding Tax submission (2) -> Indicate the Period of Payment as 01 Jan 2025 to 31 Jan 
2025 
Back to top 
 
Q7. Can I save the form without having to submit it to IRAS? 
 
A7. You may select ‘Save Draft and Exit’ at the bottom of the form to save the information prepared 
without submission to IRAS.  
 
 
The saved draft will be available for 60 days from the last saved date. Thereafter, the form will be 
auto-deleted if it is not submitted to IRAS. 
 
Back to top 
 
Q8. How to retrieve the draft that I have just saved? 
 
A8. To retrieve the saved draft, login to mytax.iras.gov.sg > S45 > Retrieve S45 Form (Draft) and 
enter the search parameters. 
 
 
Back to top 
 
 
Q9. Who can retrieve/view the saved draft? 
 
A9. Both the Preparer and Approver can retrieve the saved draft for editing. 
 
Back to top 
 
Q10. Is ‘Submit to Approver’ considered a submission to IRAS? 
 
A10. It is a submission to the Approver to approve and not a submission to IRAS. 
 
Back to top 
 
Q11. What is the time frame for my approver to approve my submission? 
 
A11.  Approver is required to approve the Withholding Tax submission within 60 days from the date 
the preparer submits for approval. Thereafter, the submission will be auto-deleted if it is not 
approved by the Approver.  
 
Back to top 
 
Q12. How do I know if my submission was successful? 
 
A12. An Acknowledgement page with an acknowledgment number will be generated upon successful 
submission to IRAS. You may also log in to mytax.iras.gov.sg > S45 > View/Amend S45 Form 
to confirm and view the status of the record filed.  
 
Back to top 
 

Q13. After filing, do I need to save or print the Consolidated Statement/ Acknowledgement 
 
Page? 
 
A13. It is important for you to save or print a copy of the Consolidated Statement for retention as only 
the Acknowledgement Page is available for retrieval in myTax Portal. 
 
To save a copy of the Consolidated Statement, go to ‘File’ > ‘Save’ 
 
To print a copy of the Consolidated Statement, go to ‘File’ > ‘Print’. For soft copy, you may print 
the copy as a PDF document. 
 
To retrieve a copy of the Acknowledgement Page, please login to mytax.iras.gov.sg > Notices/ 
Letters > S45 > Category: Acknowledgement   
 
Back to top 
 
Q14. How do I amend a record which I have submitted?  
 
A14. You may amend the records online once they have been processed.   
 
What you need to do 
 
1. Log in to mytax.iras.gov.sg 
2. Select S45 > View/Amend S45 Form 
3. Follow instructions shown on the screen to edit the Withholding Tax (WHT) records. 
 
Your new submission will override the previous submission once the amendment to the 
WHT record has been processed.   
 
Please note that online amendment is only applicable for WHT records submitted within 2 back 
years from the current date. For information on how to amend WHT records submitted more 
than 2 back years, please refer to www.iras.gov.sg > Taxes > Withholding Tax > Withholding 
Tax Filing > Making amendment after filing/ claiming refund. 
  
For tax borne by the Payer, approved refunds of $15 or more will be processed and refunded 
via GIRO or PayNow within 30 days.  
For tax borne by the non-resident, the refund will be made to them via Telegraphic Transfer. A 
separate letter requesting for the non-resident’s refund details will be issued to the Payer once 
the WHT amendment has been processed. For further details, please refer to FAQ on 
electronic refunds for WHT.  
Back to top 
 
Q15. If I am under GIRO and IRAS have processed an amendment which results in change in 
tax payable, how soon will I be able to see the updated GIRO Plan details? 
 
A15. The GIRO Plan details will be updated within 3 working days upon notification from IRAS that 
amendments have been processed. 
 
Back to top 
 

Q16. When will I get the Confirmation of Payment letter? 
 
A16. After the withholding tax payment has been received by IRAS, a digital Confirmation of Payment 
(CP) showing the amount withheld from the non-resident will be available for viewing or 
downloading in myTax Portal within 5 working days upon successful GIRO deduction or 6 
working days upon the receipt of payment for other modes of payment.  
 
No hardcopy CP will be sent. 
 
Back to top 
 
Q17. What should I do when I encounter error when filing for Withholding Tax? 
A17. Please email us at enfs45@iras.gov.sg with the screenshots of the errors encountered. 
Back to top 
 
