Payers must file and pay the WHT to IRAS by the due date.
WHT must be filed even if the payment to a non-resident is exempted under the Avoidance of Double Taxation Agreement (DTA) or Approved Royalties Incentive (ARI).
On this page:
As a payer, you must file and pay WHT to IRAS by the
15
th
of the second month
from
the date of payment to the non-resident
.
Learn more through our e-Learning video on the
Filing and Payment of WHT
.
If you are on GIRO for WHT payment, the GIRO deduction date is on the 25th of the month the tax is due. If the GIRO deduction date falls on a weekend or public holiday, the deduction will be made on the next working day.
Refer to your acknowledgement page for payment details after filing WHT.
Definition of date of payment
The
date of payment
is defined as the
earliest
of the following dates:
For all payments
except
director’s fees
When the payment is
due and payable
based on the agreement or contract, or the
date of the invoice
in the absence of any agreement or contract (credit terms should not be taken into consideration).
When payment is credited to the account of the non-resident or any other account(s) designated by the non-resident
The date of actual payment
For director’s fees
When the payment is due and payable under the following scenarios:
Director's fees approved in
arrears
For director's fees approved in arrears, the director has already rendered the requisite services for the accounting year concerned.
However, the director's fees must be disclosed to and approved by members of the company before they can be paid to him. Hence, the earliest date on which the director is entitled to the director's fees, is the date the fees are voted
and approved at the company's AGM.
Director's fees approved in
advance
For director's fees approved in advance, the director may not have rendered the requisite services for the accounting year concerned
when the fees are approved at the company's AGM. Hence, the earliest date on which the director can be entitled to the director's fees, is as and when he renders his services.
When payment is credited to the account of the non-resident or any other account(s) designated by the non-resident
The date of actual payment
Scenarios
Date of payment to the non-resident
Filing and payment due date
Technical assistance fees
A non-resident company issued an invoice dated 26 Mar 2025 to a payer for technical assistance fees in respect of services rendered. The invoice
stated that the amount must be paid within 30 days.
The payer received the invoice on 30 Apr 2025 and paid the non-resident on 19 May 2025.
26 Mar 2025
(based on invoice date)
15 May 2025
For GIRO payer, deduction takes place on 26 May 2025.
Royalty payment
The agreement stated that royalties at 5% of sales shall accrue to the non-resident at the
end of each quarter
.
In this instance,
the royalty period from Apr to Jun 2025 was accrued on 30 Jun 2025 (end of quarter), and the royalty payment was made to the non-resident on 15 Jul 2025.
30 Jun 2025
(based on date of accrual)
15 Aug 2025
For GIRO payer, deduction takes place on 25 Aug 2025.
Director’s fee
The director’s fee of $50,000 for the period from 01 Jan 2024 to 31 Dec 2024, was voted and approved in the company's Annual General Meeting (AGM) on 2 Jul 2025.
However, the fee was only paid to the director on 29 Sep 2025.
2 Jul 2025
(based on AGM date)
15 Sep 2025
For GIRO payer, deduction takes place on 25 Sep 2025.
Multiple payments for a single engagement (non-resident professional or public entertainer)
If you have made multiple payments to the
same
non-resident professional or non-resident public entertainer for the
same engagement
within a 60-day period, you can consolidate the various payments into 1 filing and declare
the last payment date as the date of payment to the non-resident professional or public entertainer.
Late payment penalty
Penalties will be imposed if the WHT is paid to IRAS after
the payment due date or if the GIRO deduction is unsuccessful
.
FAQs
Can I consolidate and file my WHT submission?
Yes, you can consolidate and file WHT twice a year, on 15 June and 15 December of each year if you are claiming tax exemption (i.e. tax rate is 0%) under the DTA and ARI.
For example:
Your WHT exempted (i.e. tax rate is 0%) payment to a non-resident is due every 15 of the month. Instead of filing for WHT monthly, you can consolidate and file 6 records on 15 June and the remaining 6 records on 15 December.
Pages
Types of Payment and Withholding Tax (WHT) Rates
Pages
Payments that are Subject to Withholding Tax
Pages
How to Pay
Documents
Determining the Date of Payment or Deemed Payment for the Purpose of Complying with Withholding Tax Obligations (PDF, 226KB)