Step 1: Check for non-resident’s eligibility for Double Taxation Relief (DTR)
Use the
S45 Double Taxation Relief Tax Rate Calculator
to check if the non-resident company is eligible for DTR and the applicable tax rate under the DTA.
View
DTA
for full details of the
DTR available.
If DTA does not apply
, withhold tax at the prevailing tax rate, file and make payment to IRAS by the due date.
If DTA applies
, check the
"Double Taxation Relief"
box and indicate the applicable tax rate when filing.
Use the
DTA Calculator for Non-resident Professional
to
check if the non-resident professional is eligible for DTR.
View
DTA
for full details of the DTR available.
If DTA does not apply
, withhold tax at the prevailing tax rate, file and make payment to IRAS by the due date.
If DTA applies
, check the
"Claim for relief under Avoidance of Double Taxation Agreement (DTA)"
and indicate the applicable tax rate when filing.
Step 2: Obtain supporting document from the non-resident
Certificate of Residence (COR)
Obtain the COR from the non-resident for each year the DTR is claimed.
The COR must:
Be certified by the foreign tax authority of the non-resident
Be in English. If the COR is not in English, please obtain an English translated copy
Clearly state that
the non-resident company is a resident of the foreign country/region for DTA purposes and
the year(s) that the COR is applicable for
One COR may be accepted for multiple years if the relevant years are clearly stated in the COR.
The
specimen format of COR from non-resident
(DOCX, 23KB) serves as a guide to the payer on the information required from the foreign tax authority. Foreign tax authorities do not need to follow the specimen
COR format but must provide the requisite information.
Signed Form IR586
Obtain Form IR586 signed by the non-resident professional if the tax treaty exemption applies.
Step 3: Submit the document to IRAS by the due date
Upload the scanned COR
and translated copy (if applicable) to IRAS as a PDF file, with file
size not more than 3MB, by the due date.
The due date is
31 Mar of the following year if the claim is for a period in the current calendar year
Example:
You submit a Withholding Tax (WHT) filing in the year 2025, with period of payment between 1 Jan 2025 and 31 Dec 2025.
To claim DTR, you must submit the COR for 2025 to IRAS by
31 Mar 2026
.
Within 3 months from the date of WHT submission if the claim is for preceding calendar years.
Example:
You submit a WHT filing on 30 Jun 2025, with period of payment between 1 Jan 2023 and 31 Dec 2024.
To claim DTR, you must submit CORs for 2023 and 2024 to IRAS by
30 Sep 2025
.
DTR may be withdrawn and
late payment penalties
imposed if the COR is not submitted by the due date.
You do not need to submit the original COR unless requested by IRAS. All documents and records are to be retained for 5 years.
You do not need to submit the signed Form IR586 unless requested by IRAS. All documents and records are to be retained for 5 years.
Request for extension of time to submit COR
You may request for an extension of up to 2 months to submit COR by completing the
online form
. This is subject to IRAS' approval.