First published in the Government Gazette, Electronic Edition, on 30 December 2024 at 6 pm.
No. S 1062
MULTINATIONAL ENTERPRISE
(MINIMUM TAX) ACT 2024
MULTINATIONAL ENTERPRISE
(MINIMUM TAX)
REGULATIONS 2024
ARRANGEMENT OF REGULATIONS
PART 1
PRELIMINARY
Regulation
1.
Citation and commencement
2.
General definitions
3.
Application of Parts in determining top-up amounts of entities
for Part 3 of Act
PART 2
ADJUSTMENTS TO
CONSOLIDATED GROUP REVENUE
4.
Adjustments to consolidated group revenue
4A.
Computation of consolidated group revenue of MNE group
formed by merger of 2 or more groups
4B.
Computation of consolidated group revenue of MNE group
formed by merger involving entities not belonging to any group,
etc.
4C.
Application of section 8(1) after demerger of MNE group
PART 3
USE OF CURRENCY
5.
Conversion of amount into presentation currency
6.
Conversion of amount in functional currency for DTT purposes
7.
Conversion of amount into Singapore dollars
8.
Conversion of amount not in presentation currency into
presentation currency for comparison with euros amount
S 1062/2024
1
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

Regulation
9.
Conversion of amount in presentation currency into euros for
comparison with euros amount
PART 4
ADJUSTMENTS TO FANIL AND
GLOBE INCOME OR LOSS
Division 1 — Preliminary provisions
10.
Purpose and application of this Part
11.
FANIL adjusted to be before tax
12.
FANIL must not reflect share acquisition adjustment
13.
Exclusion of excluded dividends
14.
Adjustments for excluded equity gain or loss
15.
Included revaluation method gain or loss
16.
Adjustments for asymmetric foreign exchange gains or losses
17.
Exclusion of expenses for illegal payments, fines and penalties
18.
Adjustment for changes in accounting policies and prior period
errors
19.
Accrued pension expense
20.
Treatment of tax credits
21.
Arm’s length requirement for certain transactions
22.
Adjustments for insurers
23.
Exclusion of intra-group financing arrangement expenses
24.
Additional tier one capital
25.
Exclusion of international shipping income and ancillary
international shipping income
Division 2 — Adjustments in relation to
permanent establishments and flow-through entities
26.
Adjustment for main entity
27.
Allocation of loss to main entity
28.
Adjustment for constituent entity owners of flow-through entity
Division 3 — Optional adjustments
29.
Election for company in distress
30.
Election to use realisation principle
31.
Election to reflect deductions for stock-based compensation
32.
Election to recognise gains over 5 years
33.
Election to exclude intra-group transactions
34.
Election for excluded equity gains and losses to be included
S 1062/2024
2
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

Regulation
35.
Election for foreign exchange risk hedges
36.
Election where assets and liabilities adjusted to fair value for tax
purposes
PART 5
ADJUSTMENTS TO QUALIFYING CURRENT
TAX EXPENSES, QUALIFYING DEFERRED
TAX EXPENSES AND ADJUSTED COVERED TAXES
Division 1 — Preliminary provisions
37.
Purpose and application of this Part
38.
Amounts excluded from qualifying current tax expense
39.
Amounts taken into account in qualifying current tax expense
40.
Post-filing adjustments and tax rate changes
41.
Non-marketable transferable tax credits
42.
Qualified flow-through tax benefits
Division 2 — Allocation of covered taxes
43.
Permanent establishments
44.
Reallocation of tax expenses
44A.
Blended CFC allocation key
44B.
Cross-border allocation of current tax expenses under cross-
crediting regimes
44C.
Cross-border allocation of deferred tax expenses
44D.
Cross-border allocation elections
Division 3 — Deferred taxes and other adjustments
44E.
Divergence between GloBE and accounting values
45.
Adjustments to qualifying deferred tax expense
46.
Recaptured deferred tax liabilities
46A.
Unclaimed accrual elections
47.
GloBE loss election
48.
Deemed distribution tax election
Division 4 — Modifications for DTT purposes
49.
Modifications in relation to Part 3 of Act
S 1062/2024
3
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

PART 6
ADJUSTMENTS TO SUBSTANCE-BASED
INCOME EXCLUSION
Regulation
50.
Definitions for this Part
51.
Application of this Part
52.
Exclusion from eligible payroll costs
53.
Adjustment to substance-based income exclusion due to assets
being used to derive only international shipping income, etc.
54.
Adjustment to substance-based income exclusion due to eligible
employees performing activities in and outside constituent
entity’s jurisdiction
55.
Adjustment to substance-based income exclusion due to eligible
tangible assets being located in and outside constituent entity’s
jurisdiction
56.
Inclusion of certain properties as eligible tangible assets
57.
Eligible payroll costs and eligible tangible assets of permanent
establishment
PART 7
MNE GROUP REORGANISATIONS AND
TRANSFER OR ACQUISITION OF ASSETS
AND LIABILITIES
58.
Purpose and application of this Part
59.
Constituent entity joining or leaving MNE group
60.
When transfer of controlling interest treated as acquisition and
disposal of assets and liabilities
61.
Transfer of assets or liabilities
PART 7A
MULTI-PARENT GROUP
61A.
Specified types of arrangement for “multi-parent group”
61B.
Application of Act to multi-parent groups
61C.
Application of regulations 61A and 61B to multi-parent groups
for purpose of Part 3 of Act, etc.
S 1062/2024
4
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

PART 8
INVESTMENT ENTITIES AND
INSURANCE INVESTMENT ENTITIES
Regulation
62.
Application of this Part
63.
Investment entity and insurance investment entity tax
transparency election
64.
Taxable distribution method election
PART 9
GLOBE SAFE HARBOUR
Division 1 — Preliminary provisions
65.
Application of this Part
Division 2 — Transitional CbCR safe harbour
66.
Definitions for this Division
67.
“Qualifying country-by-country report”
68.
“Qualified financial statements”
69.
Constituent entities eligible for Transitional CbCR Safe Harbour
70.
Conditions for application of Transitional CbCR Safe Harbour
71.
De minimis test
72.
Simplified effective tax rate test
73.
Routine profits test
74.
Basis for determining whether de minimis test, etc., met
75.
Adjustments
76.
Further adjustments for certain arrangements
77.
Application of this Division to joint ventures and JV subsidiaries
Division 3 — QDMTT Safe Harbour
78.
Constituent entities eligible for QDMTT Safe Harbour
79.
Elections for QDMTT Safe Harbour
80.
Disqualifying conditions for constituent entities other than
special entities
81.
Disqualifying conditions for joint ventures and JV subsidiaries
82.
Disqualifying conditions for investment entities or insurance
investment entities
83.
Disqualifying conditions for minority-owned constituent entities
Division 4 — Simplified calculations safe harbour
84.
“Non-material constituent entity” or “NMCE”
S 1062/2024
5
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

Regulation
85.
Conditions for application of Simplified Calculations Safe
Harbour
85A.
Top-up amount of constituent entities of sub‑group under
Simplified Calculations Safe Harbour
86.
Simplified calculations for NMCE
PART 10
TRANSITION RULES
87.
Application of this Part
88.
“Transition year”
89.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities must be taken into account in
constituent entity’s adjusted covered taxes
90.
Where deferred tax asset relates to a tax credit
91.
Deferred tax asset or liability not to be taken into account in
certain circumstances
92.
Value of deferred tax asset or liability, and computation of
GloBE income or loss, in case of transfer of assets between
constituent entities before transition year
93.
Adjustments for DTT computation where there is new transition
year
PART 11
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
94.
Formula for determining top-up amounts of entities
95.
Adjustments in computing “adjusted revenue” for de minimis
exclusion
96.
Qualified domestic minimum top-up taxes
97.
Qualified IIR
98.
Other documents forming GloBE rules
In exercise of the powers conferred by section 84 of the
Multinational Enterprise (Minimum Tax) Act 2024, the Minister
for Finance makes the following Regulations:
S 1062/2024
6
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

PART 1
PRELIMINARY
Citation and commencement
1. These Regulations are the Multinational Enterprise (Minimum
Tax) Regulations 2024 and come into operation on 1 January 2025.
General definitions
2.—(1) In these Regulations —
“first in-scope year”, in relation to an entity (X) of or connected
to an MNE group, means —
(a) subject to paragraph (b), the first financial year
that —
(i) X comes within the scope of the law of any
jurisdiction imposing a qualified IIR or a
qualified UTPR;
(ii) a chargeable entity of the MNE group becomes
liable for MTT in relation to X as a relevant
entity or would have been so liable if X were a
relevant entity;
(iii) X comes within the scope of the law of any
jurisdiction imposing a qualified domestic
minimum top‑up tax; or
(iv) in a case where X is located in Singapore or is a
section 29(b) entity, the MNE group becomes
liable to be registered under Part 4 of the Act,
(a) whichever is earlier; or
(b) where X is eligible for a Transitional CbCR Safe
Harbour under regulation 69 or its equivalent under
the law of any other jurisdiction — the first financial
year that X loses its eligibility for it or that an election
is not made to apply it to X;
“June 2024 Administrative Guidance” means the document
entitled “Tax Challenges Arising from the Digitalisation of
S 1062/2024
7
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

the Economy — Administrative Guidance on the Global
Anti-Base Erosion Model Rules (Pillar Two), June 2024”
published by the OECD on 17 June 2024;
[S 860/2025 wef 31/12/2025]
“non-marketable transferable tax credit” means a tax credit that
is not a qualified refundable tax credit and —
(a) in relation to an entity that is its originator — is not a
marketable transferable tax credit and may be
transferred to another person or entity; and
(b) in relation to an entity that is its purchaser — is not a
marketable transferable tax credit;
“originator”, in relation to a tax credit, means an entity to which
the tax credit was originally granted;
“other comprehensive income”, in relation to an entity of or
connected to an MNE group, means items of income and
expense that are not recognised in the profit and loss account,
as required or permitted by the authorised financial
accounting standard used in preparing the consolidated
financial statement of the ultimate parent entity of the
MNE group or the joint venture of the JV group, as the case
may be;
“purchaser”, in relation to a tax credit, means an entity that
purchases the tax credit from another entity;
“qualified refundable tax credit” means a tax credit (or an
amount of a tax credit) which must be paid in cash or cash
equivalent to an entity within 4 years of the entity meeting the
conditions for such payment under the law of the jurisdiction
granting the tax credit, but does not include a tax credit in
respect of a qualified imputation tax (as defined in
paragraph 1(7) of the First Schedule to the Act) or a
disqualified refundable imputation tax (as defined in
paragraph 1(7) of the First Schedule to the Act).
(2) In these Regulations, an entity is a “hybrid entity” with respect
to any of its income, expenditure, profit or loss that is attributable to
an ownership interest in the entity, if it is not a flow‑through entity,
S 1062/2024
8
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

but is fiscally transparent with respect to that income, expenditure,
profit or loss under the law of the jurisdiction in which the owner is
located.
[S 860/2025 wef 31/12/2025]
(3) In these Regulations —
(a) a tax credit or an amount of a tax credit (not being a
qualified refundable tax credit) is a “transferable tax
credit” in relation to an entity that is its originator if, under
the law of the jurisdiction granting the tax credit, the tax
credit may be transferred by the originator to a party
unrelated to the originator in the financial year in which the
tax credit was granted to the originator or within 15 months
after that financial year; and
(b) a tax credit or an amount of a tax credit (not being a
qualified refundable tax credit) is a “transferable tax
credit” in relation to an entity that is its purchaser if, under
the law of the jurisdiction granting the tax credit, the tax
credit may be transferred by the purchaser to a party
unrelated to the purchaser in the same financial year in
which the tax credit was acquired by the purchaser, and
such transfer would not be subject to more stringent
restrictions than the transfer of the tax credit by the
originator to any purchaser.
(4) In these Regulations —
(a) a transferable tax credit or an amount of a transferable tax
credit of an entity that is its originator is a “marketable
transferable tax credit” in relation thereto if —
(i) in a case where the tax credit is transferred by the
originator to a party unrelated to the originator within
15 months of the end of the financial year in which
the tax credit was granted to the originator (called in
this paragraph the relevant period) — the transfer is
at a price not less than 80% of the net present value of
the tax credit; or
(ii) in a case where the tax credit is not transferred by the
originator, or is transferred by the originator to a
S 1062/2024
9
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

party related to the originator, within the relevant
period — tax credits of the same type are traded
between unrelated parties in the relevant period, and
typically at a price not less than 80% of the net
present value of the tax credit traded; and
(b) a transferable tax credit or an amount of a transferable tax
credit of an entity that is its purchaser is a “marketable
transferable tax credit” in relation thereto if the tax credit is
acquired by the purchaser from a party unrelated to the
purchaser at a price not less than 80% of the net present
value of the tax credit.
(5) In paragraph (4), the net present value of a tax credit is
computed on the basis of the return on debt instruments issued by the
government of the jurisdiction granting the tax credit —
(a) that have a maturity similar to the period for the use of the
tax credit after it is granted to the originator (in the case of
paragraph (4)(a)) or acquired by the purchaser (in the case
of paragraph (4)(b)), up to a maximum maturity of 5 years;
and
(b) that are issued in the financial year in which the tax credit
is transferred by the originator or to the purchaser (as the
case may be) or, if the tax credit is not transferred by the
originator, in the financial year in which the tax credit is
granted to the originator.
(6) In paragraph (5) —
(a) the tax credit is the face value of the credit or the remaining
creditable amount in relation to the tax credit; and
(b) the cash flow projection to be factored in the net present
value calculation is based on the maximum amount that
can be used each year under the legal design of the credit.
(7) In paragraphs (3) and (4), a party is related to another party if —
(a) one party owns (directly or indirectly) 50% or more of the
ownership interests in the other party, and 50% or more of
S 1062/2024
10
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

the voting rights in that other party (if that other party is a
company);
(b) another party owns (directly or indirectly) 50% or more of
the ownership interests in both parties, and 50% or more of
the voting rights in each of the parties that is a company;
(c) either party directly or indirectly controls the other party;
or
(d) one or more other parties directly or indirectly control both
parties,
and a party is unrelated to another party if none of the circumstances
mentioned in sub‑paragraphs (a) to (d) are present.
(8) A reference to a section in these Regulations is to a section of
the Act.
Application of Parts in determining top-up amounts of entities
for Part 3 of Act
3. Except as otherwise provided, and without affecting the
application of the other Parts, Parts 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 10 and 11 apply
(with the modifications set out in those Parts) for the purpose of
determining the top-up amounts of entities in section 29, and for this
purpose a reference to a section in Part 2 of the Act or a provision in
the First Schedule to the Act is to that section or provision as applied
by section 30.
PART 2
ADJUSTMENTS TO
CONSOLIDATED GROUP REVENUE
Adjustments to consolidated group revenue
4.—(1) For the purpose of section 8(1), the consolidated group
revenue of an MNE group for a financial year is the revenue reflected
in the consolidated financial statements of its ultimate parent entity
for that financial year (or if different types of revenue are presented as
separate line items in such consolidated financial statements, the
aggregate of such revenues) adjusted as follows:
S 1062/2024
11
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

(a) the revenue of the entities of the MNE group for that
financial year from their ordinary activities is included (to
the extent it was not already included);
(b) the cost of sales and other operating expenses for that
financial year are added back (to the extent they were
already deducted);
(c) net investment gains for that financial year reflected in the
profit and loss statement of the consolidated financial
statements are included (to the extent that they were not
already included);
(d) income or gains for that financial year presented as
extraordinary or non-recurring items in the consolidated
financial statements are included (to the extent that they
were not already included).
[S 860/2025 wef 31/12/2025]
(2) In paragraph (1)(c), “net investment gains” means, in the case
where investment gains and investment losses are separately reflected
in the profit and loss statement of the consolidated financial
statements for a financial year, the investment gains reduced by the
investment losses (but not below nil) for that financial year.
Computation of consolidated group revenue of MNE group
formed by merger of 2 or more groups
4A.—(1) This regulation applies for the purposes of determining
whether, in accordance with section 8, the Act applies for a financial
year to an MNE group (called the merged group) that is formed by an
arrangement pursuant to which all or substantially all of the entities of
each of 2 or more groups (each called a constituent group) become
entities of a single MNE group (called the merger).
(2) In this regulation —
“first financial year”, in relation to a merged group, means the
financial year of the merged group in which the effective date
of the merger falls;
S 1062/2024
12
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

“merger FY” means the period —
(a) beginning on the first day after the pre-merger FY
that is the first period before the first financial year of
the merged group; and
(b) ending on the last day of the first financial year of the
merged group;
“pre-merger FY” means the first, second, third or fourth period
before the first financial year of the merged group, each being
a period of 12 months that ends in the same calendar month as
the calendar month in which the first financial year of the
merged group ends.
Example
Group M is formed by a merger of the entities of Group A and the entities of
Group B, and the effective date of the merger is 1 July 2024. The financial year of
Group M in which the effective date of the merger falls i.e., the first financial year of
Group M, is 1 July 2024 to 31 December 2024.
The pre-merger FYs are 1 January 2023 to 31 December 2023, 1 January 2022 to
31 December 2022, 1 January 2021 to 31 December 2021 and 1 January 2020 to
31 December 2020.
The merger FY is the period beginning on 1 January 2024 and ending on
31 December 2024.
(3) The merger FY is treated as a financial year of the merged
group.
(4) In determining whether the merged group’s consolidated group
revenue is equal to or exceeds the threshold in section 8(2) for any
financial year before the merger FY —
(a) each pre-merger FY is treated as a financial year before the
merger FY; and
(b) the merged group’s consolidated group revenue for a pre-
merger FY is computed by aggregating the consolidated
group revenue of every constituent group (determined by
reference to the consolidated financial statements of the
constituent group’s ultimate parent entity) for the pre-
merger FY, whether or not the constituent group existed for
the entire period of the pre-merger FY.
S 1062/2024
13
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

(5) In determining whether the merged group’s consolidated group
revenue is equal to or exceeds the threshold in section 8(2) for the
merger FY, the merged group’s consolidated group revenue for the
merger FY is computed by aggregating —
(a) the consolidated group revenue of every constituent group
(determined by reference to the consolidated financial
statements of the constituent group’s ultimate parent
entity) for its financial year that ends at any time in the
merger FY; and
(b) the consolidated group revenue of the merged group
(determined by reference to the consolidated financial
statements of its ultimate parent entity) for its first financial
year.
Example
Group A, Group B and Group C merged to form a single MNE group (called
Group M) on 1 July 2024. Each of Group A, Group B and Group C (prior to the
merger) and the merged group uses the calendar year as their respective financial
years. The merger FY is from 1 January 2024 to 31 December 2024 (both dates
inclusive).
The financial year concerned for the purposes of section 8(1) in respect of
Group M is the financial year beginning on 1 January 2025.
For the financial years 2021, 2022, 2023 and 2024, the respective sums of the
consolidated group revenue of Group A, Group B and Group C are as follows:
Year
Sums of consolidated group
revenue (EUR) of Group A,
Group B and Group C
2021
300 million
2022
550 million
2023
770 million
2024 — from
1 January 2024
to 30 June 2024
(both dates inclusive)
355 million
In the merger FY, the consolidated group revenue of Group M for the period of
1 July 2024 to 31 December 2024 (both dates inclusive) is EUR 400 million.
S 1062/2024
14
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

In applying section 8(1) to determine whether the Act applies to Group M in
respect of the financial year beginning on 1 January 2025, Group M’s consolidated
group revenue for the merger FY is EUR 755 million, being the sum of
EUR 355 million and EUR 400 million. As the consolidated group revenue of
Group M also exceeded EUR 750 million in the financial year 2023 (as determined
by the sums of the consolidated group revenue of Group A, Group B and Group C),
the Act applies to Group M for financial year 2025 under section 8(1).
(6) If the financial year of any constituent group ends in a calendar
month that is different from the calendar month in which the first
financial year of the merged group ends, the constituent group’s
consolidated group revenue for each pre-merger FY to be included
for the purposes of applying section 8(1) to the merged group is the
constituent group’s consolidated group revenue for its financial year
that ends at any time in the pre-merger FY.
[S 129/2025 wef 25/02/2025]
Computation of consolidated group revenue of MNE group
formed by merger involving entities not belonging to any
group, etc.
4B.—(1) This regulation applies for the purposes of determining
whether, in accordance with section 8, the Act applies for a financial
year to an MNE group (called the merged group) that is formed by an
arrangement —
(a) pursuant to which 2 or more entities that are each not a
member of any group become entities of an MNE group; or
(b) pursuant to which one or more entities that are each not a
member of any group and the entities of one or more
groups (each called a constituent group) become entities of
a single MNE group.
(2) In this regulation —
“first financial year”, in relation to a merged group, means the
financial year of the merged group in which the effective date
of the merger falls;
S 1062/2024
15
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

“merger FY” means the period —
(a) beginning on the first day after the pre-merger FY
that is the first period before the first financial year of
the merged group; and
(b) ending on the last day of the first financial year of the
merged group;
“pre-merger FY” means the first, second, third or fourth period
before the first financial year of the merged group, each being
a period of 12 months that ends in the same calendar month as
the calendar month in which the first financial year of the
merged group ends.
(3) The merger FY is treated as a financial year of the merged
group.
(4) In determining whether the merged group’s consolidated group
revenue is equal to or exceeds the threshold in section 8(2) for any
financial year before the merger FY —
(a) each pre-merger FY is treated as a financial year of the
merged group before the merger FY; and
(b) the merged group’s consolidated group revenue for a pre-
merger FY is computed by —
(i) in the case of paragraph (1)(a) — aggregating the
revenue of all the entities, as reflected in each entity’s
financial statements for the pre-merger FY, whether
or not those entities existed for the entire period of
the pre-merger FY; or
(ii) in the case of paragraph (1)(b) — aggregating the
revenue of the firstmentioned entity or each of the
firstmentioned entities in paragraph (1)(b) (as
reflected in its financial statements for the pre-
merger FY) and the consolidated group revenue of
every constituent group (determined by reference to
the consolidated financial statements of its ultimate
parent entity) for the pre-merger FY, whether or not
S 1062/2024
16
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

that entity or constituent group existed for the entire
period of the pre-merger FY.
(5) In determining whether the merged group’s consolidated group
revenue is equal to or exceeds the threshold in section 8(2) for the
merger FY, the merged group’s consolidated group revenue for the
merger FY is computed by —
(a) in the case of paragraph (1)(a) — aggregating the
following:
(i) the revenue of all the entities, as reflected in each
entity’s financial statements for its financial year that
ends at any time in the merger FY;
(ii) the consolidated group revenue of the merged group
(determined
by
reference
to
the
consolidated
financial statements of its ultimate parent entity)
for its first financial year; or
(b) in the case of paragraph (1)(b) — aggregating the
following:
(i) the revenue of the firstmentioned entity or each of
the firstmentioned entities, as reflected in its
financial statements for its financial year that ends
at any time in the merger FY;
(ii) the consolidated group revenue of every constituent
group (determined by reference to the consolidated
financial statements of its ultimate parent entity) for
its financial year that ends at any time in the merger
FY;
(iii) the consolidated group revenue of the merged group
(determined
by
reference
to
the
consolidated
financial statements of its ultimate parent entity)
for its first financial year.
(6) If the financial year of any entity or any constituent group ends
in a calendar month that is different from the calendar month in which
the first financial year of the merged group ends, the entity’s revenue
or the constituent group’s consolidated group revenue (as the case
S 1062/2024
17
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

may be) for each pre-merger FY to be included for the purposes of
applying section 8(1) to the merged group is the entity’s revenue or
constituent group’s consolidated group revenue for its financial year
that ends at any time in the pre-merger FY.
Example
An MNE group uses the calendar year as its financial year. On 1 January 2025, an
entity that is part of the MNE group acquires ownership interests in another entity
that is not part of any group and that uses 30 September as the end of its financial
year. The MNE group continues to use the calendar year as its financial year after the
acquisition.
The pre-merger FYs are 1 January 2024 to 31 December 2024, 1 January 2023 to
31 December 2023, 1 January 2022 to 31 December 2022 and 1 January 2021 to
31 December 2021. The merger FY is the period beginning on 1 January 2025 and
ending on 31 December 2025.
In applying section 8(1) to determine whether the Act applies to the MNE group
in respect of its financial year beginning 1 January 2025, the revenue of the acquired
entity for each of the financial years ending 30 September 2024, 30 September 2023,
30 September 2022, and 30 September 2021 is added to the consolidated group
revenue of the MNE group for the 4 preceding financial years ending 31 December
2024, 31 December 2023, 31 December 2022 and 31 December 2021, respectively.
The acquired entity’s revenue for the period between 1 October 2024 and
31 December 2024 (both dates inclusive) (which would have been included in the
financial statements of that entity in the following year if it had not been acquired) is
not included in the computation of the MNE group’s consolidated group revenue for
the calendar years 2024 and 2025.
(7) In this regulation, “merger” means an arrangement mentioned in
paragraph (1)(a) or (b).
[S 129/2025 wef 25/02/2025]
Application of section 8(1) after demerger of MNE group
4C.—(1) This regulation applies for the purposes of determining
whether, in accordance with section 8, the Act applies for a financial
year to an MNE group (called the demerged group) that results from a
demerger.
(2) In this regulation —
“demerger” means an arrangement pursuant to which the entities
of a relevant MNE group are separated into 2 or more groups
such that the assets, liabilities, income, expenses and cash
S 1062/2024
18
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

flows of those entities are no longer included in the
consolidated financial statements of the same ultimate
parent entity;
“FY1” means the first financial year of the demerged group after
the effective date of the demerger;
“FY2” means the second financial year of the demerged group
after the effective date of the demerger;
“FY3” means the third financial year of the demerged group
after the effective date of the demerger;
“FY4” means the fourth financial year of the demerged group
after the effective date of the demerger;
“relevant MNE group” means an MNE group to which —
(a) the Act applies for its financial year in which the
effective date of the demerger falls; or
(b) a qualified IIR applies for its financial year that
begins before 1 January 2025 in which the effective
date of the demerger falls.
[S 860/2025 wef 31/12/2025]
(3) The Act applies to the demerged group for FY1, FY2, FY3 or
FY4 —
(a) in the case of FY1 — if the demerged group’s consolidated
group
revenue
(determined
by
reference
to
the
consolidated financial statements of its ultimate parent
entity) for FY1 is equal to or exceeds the threshold in
section 8(2);
(b) in the case of FY2 — if the demerged group’s consolidated
group
revenue
(determined
by
reference
to
the
consolidated financial statements of its ultimate parent
entity) for each of FY1 and FY2 is equal to or exceeds the
threshold in section 8(2);
(c) in the case of FY3 — if the demerged group’s consolidated
group
revenue
(determined
by
reference
to
the
consolidated financial statements of its ultimate parent
S 1062/2024
19
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

entity) exceeds the threshold in section 8(2) for at least 2 of
the following financial years:
(i) FY1;
(ii) FY2;
(iii) FY3; or
(d) in the case of FY4 — if the demerged group’s consolidated
group
revenue
(determined
by
reference
to
the
consolidated financial statements of its ultimate parent
entity) exceeds the threshold in section 8(2) for at least 2 of
the following financial years:
(i) FY1;
(ii) FY2;
(iii) FY3;
(iv) FY4.
[S 129/2025 wef 25/02/2025]
PART 3
USE OF CURRENCY
Conversion of amount into presentation currency
5.—(1) This regulation applies where, in order to determine for the
purpose of Part 2 or 3 of the Act, the top‑up tax for a financial year
for —
(a) a relevant entity (X); or
(b) a standalone JVor an entity of a JV group that is treated as a
relevant entity under section 25 (also X),
an amount used to determine X’s GloBE income or loss or top‑up
amount that is not in the presentation currency has to be converted
into that currency pursuant to section 9(1).
(2) This regulation also applies where an amount used to determine
X’s GloBE income or loss or top-up amount that is to be entered in a
GloBE information return to be filed under section 40, is not in the
presentation currency.
S 1062/2024
20
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

(3) The amount is to be converted into the presentation currency in
accordance with the applicable rules (including any applicable
guidance for hyperinflation) in the applicable financial accounting
standards.
(4) Paragraph (3) applies whether or not the applicable financial
accounting standards require the amount to be converted into the
presentation currency.
(5) In this regulation, the applicable financial accounting standards
are —
(a) if X’s FANIL is the net income or loss determined in
accordance with paragraph 6(3)(a) of the First Schedule to
the Act — the financial accounting standard used in
preparing the consolidated financial statements for the
financial year concerned of the ultimate parent entity of the
MNE group of or to which X is a part or connected; or
(b) if X’s FANIL is the net income or loss determined in
accordance with paragraph 6(3)(b) of the First Schedule to
the Act — the acceptable financial accounting standard or
authorised financial accounting standard used to determine
that net income or loss.
Conversion of amount in functional currency for DTT
purposes
6. For the purpose of section 9(6), the conversion of an amount in
the functional currency into the currency in section 9(6)(a) or (b) is to
be made in accordance with the applicable rules (including any
applicable guidance for hyperinflation) in the Accounting Standards
made or formulated under Part 3 of the Accounting Standards
Act 2007.
Conversion of amount into Singapore dollars
7.—(1) This regulation applies where, in order to ascertain an
amount of MTTor DTT payable by a chargeable entity for a financial
year, an amount of top‑up tax for the financial year for a relevant
entity of the chargeable entity in the presentation currency (not being
S 1062/2024
21
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

Singapore dollars) has to be converted into Singapore dollars
pursuant to section 9(9).
(2) The amount is to be converted into Singapore dollars using —
(a) the average rate of exchange, as made available by the
Monetary Authority of Singapore, calculated on the basis
of the rate of exchange at the end of each month for that
financial year; or
(b) where no such average rate of exchange is made available
by the Monetary Authority of Singapore, such rate of
exchange as the Comptroller may determine.
Conversion of amount not in presentation currency into
presentation currency for comparison with euros amount
8.—(1) This regulation applies where, in order to compare an
amount relating to an entity (Y) that is not in the presentation currency
to a figure expressed in the Act in euros, that amount has to be first
converted into the presentation currency pursuant to section 9(10)(a).
(2) That amount is to be converted into the presentation currency in
accordance with the applicable rules (including any applicable
guidance for hyperinflation) in the applicable financial accounting
standards.
(3) Paragraph (2) applies whether or not the applicable financial
accounting standards require the amount to be converted into the
presentation currency.
(4) In this regulation, “applicable financial accounting standards”
has the meaning given by regulation 5(5), with the reference to X
replaced with Y.
Conversion of amount in presentation currency into euros for
comparison with euros amount
9.—(1) This regulation applies where, in order to compare an
amount in the presentation currency (not being euros) to a figure
expressed in the Act in euros, that amount has to be converted into
euros pursuant to section 9(10)(b).
S 1062/2024
22
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

(2) The amount is to be converted into euros using the average rate
of exchange for the month of December of the calendar year
immediately before the financial year for which the consolidated
financial statements were prepared or which would have been
prepared (as the case may be) using the presentation currency.
(3) In paragraph (2), the average rate of exchange for the month of
December for a calendar year is —
(a) the average of the daily rates of exchange as quoted by the
European Central Bank for that month;
(b) in the absence of the rate in sub‑paragraph (a) — the
average of the daily rates of exchange as made available by
the Monetary Authority of Singapore for that month; and
(c) in the absence of the rates in sub‑paragraphs (a) and (b) —
the average of the daily rates of exchange as quoted or
made available by the institution that manages the
presentation currency for that month.
PART 4
ADJUSTMENTS TO FANIL AND
GLOBE INCOME OR LOSS
Division 1 — Preliminary provisions
Purpose and application of this Part
10.—(1) This Part sets out the adjustments that must or may be
made to the FANIL of a constituent entity for a financial year for the
purpose of determining its GloBE income or loss for that financial
year.
(2) This Part applies to a standalone JV or an entity of a JV group
with the following modifications:
(a) except in sub‑paragraph (b), references to an MNE group
are to the standalone JVor the JV group of which the entity
is a part;
S 1062/2024
23
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

(b) references to the filing entity of an MNE group are to the
filing entity of the MNE group to which the standalone JV
or entity is connected;
(c) references to the ultimate parent entity of an MNE group
are to the standalone JV or the joint venture of the JV
group;
(d) references to a constituent entity are to the standalone JVor
the entity;
(e) other modifications set out in the regulations.
FANIL adjusted to be before tax
11. The FANIL of a constituent entity of an MNE group for a
financial year must be adjusted by adding back any positive amounts
and excluding any negative amounts of tax expense (including a
deferred tax expense) in respect of the following, as reflected in the
FANIL:
(a) a covered tax (whether or not the income to which the tax
relates is excluded from its GloBE income or loss);
(b) any MTT, or any qualified IIR;
(c) any DTT, or any qualified domestic minimum top‑up tax;
(d) a qualified UTPR;
(e) any disqualified refundable imputation tax (as defined in
paragraph 1(7) of the First Schedule to the Act);
(f) any tax payable by a life insurer in respect of amounts
accruing to or paid to policyholders.
FANIL must not reflect share acquisition adjustment
12.—(1) The FANIL of a constituent entity of an MNE group for a
financial year must be adjusted so that it does not reflect any share
acquisition adjustment.
(2) In this regulation, “share acquisition adjustment” means a
purchase accounting adjustment to the consolidated financial
statements of an ultimate parent entity of an MNE group arising as
a result of an entity becoming a constituent entity of the MNE group
S 1062/2024
24
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

due to the acquisition of ownership interests in the entity by an
existing constituent entity of the MNE group.
(3) This regulation does not apply to a share acquisition adjustment
resulting
from
an
acquisition
of
ownership
interests
before
1 December 2021 if the constituent entities of the MNE group do
not have sufficient records to identify the adjustment made with
reasonable accuracy.
Exclusion of excluded dividends
13.—(1) Subject to paragraphs (2) and (3), the FANIL of a
constituent entity of an MNE group for a financial year must be
adjusted to exclude any amount of excluded dividends received or
accrued by that constituent entity.
(2) The following are not to be excluded under paragraph (1):
(a) a dividend or other distribution paid by another constituent
entity of that MNE group that is treated as an expense in
that constituent entity’s FANIL;
(b) a dividend or other distribution paid on an interest in an
entity that is a debt interest;
(c) a dividend or other distribution paid in respect of additional
tier one capital (as defined in regulation 24(3)).
(3) The filing entity of an MNE group may make an election in a
GloBE information return (whether filed in Singapore or in another
jurisdiction) in accordance with the GloBE rules for all the dividends
or other distributions received or accrued by any constituent entity of
that MNE group for a financial year from its portfolio shareholdings
not to be treated as excluded dividends for the purpose of this
regulation.
(4) An election under paragraph (3) must not be revoked for the
financial year for which it is made or for any of the subsequent
4 financial years, and any such revocation has no effect.
(5) If an election under paragraph (3) is revoked for a financial year,
another election under that paragraph must not be made (whether in
Singapore or in another jurisdiction) in respect of the constituent
S 1062/2024
25
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

entity for that or any of the subsequent 4 financial years, and any such
election has no effect.
(6) In paragraph (2)(b), “debt interest”, in relation to an entity,
means an interest that is economically a debt obligation of the entity,
and that is not an ownership interest in the entity.
Adjustments for excluded equity gain or loss
14.—(1) The FANIL of a constituent entity of an MNE group for a
financial year must be adjusted for any excluded equity gain or loss as
follows:
(a) in the case of any gain or loss from changes in fair value of
a direct ownership interest in another entity or the
impairment of such interest, other than a portfolio
shareholding — by excluding the amount of the gain or
adding back the amount of the loss or impairment as if it
were a gain or loss (determined at the relevant time) from a
change in fair value of a direct ownership interest or the
impairment of such interest in an entity described in
paragraph (2);
[S 860/2025 wef 31/12/2025]
(b) in the case of a profit or loss in respect of a direct
ownership interest in another entity included under the
equity method of accounting — by excluding the amount
of the profit or adding back the amount of the loss
determined at the relevant time;
(c) in the case of a gain or loss from a disposition of a direct
ownership interest in another entity other than a portfolio
shareholding — by excluding the amount of the gain or
adding back the amount of the loss as if it were a gain or
loss (determined at the relevant time) from a disposition of
a direct ownership interest in an entity described in
paragraph (2).
(2) The entity in paragraph (1)(a) or (c) is one to which the
members of the MNE group have, at the relevant time for that
provision, direct ownership interests between them that entitle them
S 1062/2024
26
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

to 10% or more of that entity’s profits, capital, reserves and voting
rights.
(3) The “relevant time” is —
(a) in the case of paragraph (1)(a) and (b) — the end of the
financial year in which the gain, profit or loss arose; and
(b) in the case of paragraph (1)(c) — immediately before the
disposition.
Included revaluation method gain or loss
15.—(1) The FANIL of a constituent entity of an MNE group for a
financial year must be adjusted by adding any amount of gain, and
subtracting any amount of loss, for any included revaluation method
gain or loss for that financial year.
(2) In this regulation —
“included revaluation method gain or loss” means a gain or loss
before tax arising as a result of the use of an accounting
method or practice that —
(a) periodically
adjusts the carrying
value of the
constituent entity’s property, plant and equipment
to its fair value;
(b) records the changes in value in other comprehensive
income; and
(c) does not subsequently report the gains or losses
recorded in other comprehensive income through the
profit and loss account;
“property, plant and equipment” means any tangible asset
that —
(a) is held by an entity for its use in the production or
supply of goods or services, for rental to another
person or entity, or for its administrative purposes;
and
(b) is expected to be used in more than one financial year.
S 1062/2024
27
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

Adjustments for asymmetric foreign exchange gains or losses
16.—(1) This regulation applies where the accounting currency and
the tax currency of a constituent entity of an MNE group are different.
(2) Where, for a financial year —
(a) the constituent entity has a gain or loss as a result of
fluctuations in the exchange rate between its accounting
currency and its tax currency; and
(b) the gain or loss is reflected differently in its taxable income
and in its FANIL,
its FANIL must be adjusted so that the gain or loss is reflected in its
FANIL on the same basis it is reflected in its taxable income.
(3) Where, for a financial year —
(a) the constituent entity has a gain or loss as a result of
fluctuations in the exchange rate between its accounting
currency and a third currency;
(b) the gain or loss is reflected in its FANIL; and
(c) the gain or loss is reflected differently in its taxable
income,
its FANIL must be adjusted to exclude that gain or loss.
(4) Where, for a financial year —
(a) the constituent entity has a gain or loss as a result of
fluctuations in the exchange rate between its tax currency
and a third currency; and
(b) the gain or loss is reflected differently in its FANIL,
its FANIL must be adjusted so that the gain or loss is fully reflected in
its FANIL (whether or not it is reflected in its taxable income).
(5) In this regulation —
“accounting currency” means the functional currency in which
the financial statements of the constituent entity are kept;
“tax currency” means the currency in which the profits of the
constituent entity are determined for the purposes of
S 1062/2024
28
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

determining its liability to covered taxes in the jurisdiction in
which it is located;
“taxable income” means income subject to, and determined for
the purposes of, covered taxes;
“third currency” means any currency which is neither the
accounting currency nor the tax currency of the constituent
entity.
Exclusion of expenses for illegal payments, fines and penalties
17.—(1) Where the FANIL of a constituent entity of an MNE group
for a financial year reflects —
(a) expenses incurred for illegal payments; or
(b) expenses incurred for fines or penalties of EUR 50,000 or
more,
the FANIL must be adjusted to exclude those expenses.
(2) In paragraph (1)(a), a payment is illegal if the making of that
payment is, or forms part of conduct which is, an offence under the
law of —
(a) the jurisdiction where the constituent entity is located; or
(b) the jurisdiction where the ultimate parent entity is located.
(3) In paragraph (1)(b), where more than one fine or penalty is
accrued in respect of the same conduct, or for continuing conduct,
those fines or penalties must be aggregated.
Adjustment for changes in accounting policies and prior period
errors
18. Where there has been a change to the net assets and liabilities of
a constituent entity of an MNE group at the start of a financial year,
the FANIL of that constituent entity for that financial year must be
adjusted to include the amount of that change if the change is
attributable to —
(a) a change in accounting policy that affects income or
expenses included in the GloBE income or loss of that
constituent entity for any financial year; or
S 1062/2024
29
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

(b) a correction of an error reflected in the GloBE income or
loss of that constituent entity for a previous financial year,
except to the extent the correction of the error results in the
application of regulation 40(2).
Accrued pension expense
19.—(1) This regulation applies in a financial year where a
constituent entity of an MNE group —
(a) has made any contribution to a pension fund in the
financial year;
(b) has received any amount from the pension fund in the
financial year; or
(c) otherwise has any amount of income or expense relating to
the pension fund reflected in its FANIL.
(2) The FANIL of the constituent entity for the financial year must
be adjusted by deducting an amount A + B −C, where —
(a) A is the amount of income (expressed as a positive
amount) or expense (expressed as a negative amount) for
the financial year that has accrued in respect of the pension
fund in the FANIL of the constituent entity;
(b) B is the amount of contributions made to the pension fund
by the constituent entity in the financial year; and
(c) C is the amount received by the constituent entity from the
pension fund in the financial year.
Treatment of tax credits
20.—(1) The FANIL of a constituent entity of an MNE group for a
financial year must be adjusted so that —
(a) qualified refundable tax credits are accounted for as
income (and not as a negative amount of tax expense);
(b) tax credits that are marketable transferable tax credits are
accounted for as income or loss under paragraph (2), (3) or
(4) (and not as a negative amount of tax expense); and
S 1062/2024
30
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

(c) subject to paragraph (5), other tax credits are accounted for
as a negative amount of tax expense in determining the
adjusted
covered
taxes
under
paragraph
1
of
the
First Schedule to the Act (and regulation 11 applies
accordingly); and are excluded from the FANIL to the
extent they are included in the consolidated financial
statements as income in the FANIL.
(2) For the purpose of paragraph (1)(a) and (b), a qualified
refundable tax credit or marketable transferable tax credit is
accounted for as income as follows:
(a) if the constituent entity is the originator of the tax credit
and the tax credit is related to the acquisition or
construction
of
assets
and
the
originator
has
an
accounting policy of reducing the carrying value of its
assets in respect of such tax credits or recognising such tax
credits as deferred income, the originator must follow the
accounting policy;
(b) in any other case, the face value of the tax credit is treated
as income in the financial year in which the entitlement
under the tax credit accrues.
(3) For the purpose of paragraph (1)(b), where the constituent entity
is the originator of the marketable transferable tax credit —
(a) if the tax credit is transferred by the constituent entity in the
financial year in which it is granted or within 15 months
after that financial year, the consideration for the transfer
must be accounted for as income for the financial year in
which it is granted;
(b) if the tax credit is not transferred by the constituent entity
within that period, the value of the tax credit must be
accounted for as income when accrued as income
according to the accounting policy of the constituent
entity;
(c) if the tax credit is transferred by the constituent entity after
that period for a consideration less than the remaining
value of the tax credit, the difference between the
S 1062/2024
31
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

remaining value of the tax credit and the consideration
received must be accounted for as a loss for the financial
year in which the transfer occurs; and
(d) if the tax credit expires, any unutilised value of the tax
credit must be accounted for as a loss (or as an increase to
the carrying value of the asset where paragraph (2)(a)
applies) for the financial year in which the tax credit
expires.
(4) For the purpose of paragraph (1)(b), where the constituent entity
is a purchaser of the marketable transferable tax credit —
(a) if any part of the tax credit is utilised by the constituent
entity in a financial year, the following amount must be
accounted for as income for that financial year:
A
B  B  C
ð
Þ;
(a) where —
(i) A is the amount of the tax credit utilised;
(ii) B is the full value of the tax credit; and
(iii) C is the price paid by the constituent entity for the tax
credit;
(b) if the tax credit is transferred by the constituent entity, the
following amount must be accounted for as income or a
loss (as the case may be) for the financial year in which the
transfer occurs:
D þ E
ð
Þ  F þ G
ð
Þ;
(b) where —
(i) D is the consideration received by the constituent
entity for the transfer;
(ii) E is the amount of the tax credit that has been utilised
by the constituent entity for that financial year and all
previous financial years;
S 1062/2024
32
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

(iii) F is the consideration paid by the constituent entity to
acquire the tax credit; and
(iv) G is the total amount that is accounted for as income
by the constituent entity under sub‑paragraph (a) in
respect of the tax credit for that financial year and all
previous financial years; and
[S 129/2025 wef 25/02/2025]
(c) if the tax credit expires, the following amount must be
accounted for as a loss for the financial year in which the
tax credit expires: (F + G) −E, where F, G and E have the
same meanings as in sub‑paragraph (b).
(5) Where
the
constituent
entity
is
the
purchaser
of
a
non‑marketable transferable tax credit and incurs a net loss (being
a negative amount computed by the formula in regulation 41(2)(b))
on the transfer of the tax credit to another person, the net loss must be
accounted for as a loss for the financial year in which the transfer
occurs.
(6) Where the constituent entity is the purchaser of a qualified
refundable tax credit and incurs a net loss after applying the formula
in paragraph (4)(c) on the expiry of the tax credit, the net loss must be
accounted for as a loss for the financial year in which the expiry of the
tax credit occurs.
Arm’s length requirement for certain transactions
21.—(1) This regulation applies to a constituent entity of an MNE
group if the constituent entity has entered into a transaction (called in
this regulation the relevant transaction) with another constituent
entity of the MNE group located in a different jurisdiction from the
firstmentioned constituent entity, and the relevant transaction is —
(a) not made under arm’s length conditions; or
(b) not accounted for in the same amount for both constituent
entities.
(2) This regulation also applies to a constituent entity of an MNE
group if the constituent entity has entered into a transaction for the
sale or transfer of an asset (also called in this regulation the relevant
S 1062/2024
33
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

transaction) with another constituent entity of the MNE group located
in the same jurisdiction, a loss arising from the relevant transaction is
included in the FANIL of the constituent entity, and the relevant
transaction is not made under arm’s length conditions.
(3) Where this regulation applies to a constituent entity of an MNE
group, the FANIL of the constituent entity must be adjusted so that
the financial outcome of the relevant transaction is accounted for in
the same amount for both constituent entities that are parties to the
relevant transaction, and as if the relevant transaction were made
under arm’s length conditions.
(4) Where, for any financial year, a relevant transaction is between
a relevant constituent entity (A) and another constituent entity (B),
and a tax adjustment is made for A by the taxation authority of the
jurisdiction where A is located in connection with transfer pricing, but
no corresponding adjustment is made for B in the jurisdiction where B
is located, no adjustment is to be made under paragraph (3).
[S 860/2025 wef 31/12/2025]
(5) For the purpose of Part 3 of the Act, where the Comptroller
disagrees with the application of paragraph (3) by any constituent
entity, the Comptroller may adjust the FANIL of that constituent
entity to reflect the financial outcome of the relevant transaction if the
relevant transaction were made under arm’s length conditions.
(6) In paragraph (4), a constituent entity of an MNE group is a
“relevant constituent entity” for a financial year if —
(a) it is located in a jurisdiction with a nominal income tax rate
below 15% for that financial year;
(b) where it is not a special entity — the effective tax rate
(as determined under section 17) for the constituent entities
(not being special entities) of that MNE group located in
that jurisdiction for any of the previous 2 financial years is
less than 15%;
(c) where it is a stateless entity — its effective tax rate
(as determined under section 22) for any of the previous
2 financial years is less than 15%;
S 1062/2024
34
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

(d) where it is a minority-owned constituent entity — the
effective tax rate (as determined under section 23) for the
constituent
entities
of
that
MNE
group
that
are
minority‑owned
constituent
entities
located
in
that
jurisdiction for any of the previous 2 financial years is
less than 15%; or
(e) where it is an investment entity or insurance investment
entity — the effective tax rate (as determined under
section 24) for the constituent entities of that MNE group
that are investment entities or insurance investment entities
located in that jurisdiction for any of the previous
2 financial years is less than 15%.
(7) In this regulation, “arm’s length conditions”, in relation to a
transaction between constituent entities of the same MNE group,
means conditions which would be made or imposed between them in
their commercial or financial relations if they were not constituent
entities of the same MNE group and dealing independently with one
another in comparable circumstances.
(8) In the application under regulation 10(2) of this regulation to a
standalone JVor an entity of a JV group, the standalone JVor entity is
a “relevant constituent entity” for a financial year if the effective tax
rate (as determined under section 25) for the standalone JVor entities
of the JV group located in that jurisdiction for any of the previous
2 financial years is less than 15%.
Adjustments for insurers
22.—(1) The FANIL of a constituent entity of an MNE group that is
a life insurer for a financial year must be adjusted to exclude any
amount charged to the constituent entity’s policyholders for taxes
payable by the constituent entity in respect of amounts accruing to or
paid to the policyholders, unless such taxes are taken into account by
the constituent entity as an expense (other than as a tax expense
amount as defined in regulation 11(f)) in its FANIL.
(2) The FANIL of a constituent entity of an MNE group that is a life
insurer for a financial year must be adjusted to take into account any
returns to its policyholders (if not already taken into account) that
S 1062/2024
35
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

correspond to increases or decreases in its liability to its policyholders
that are reflected in its FANIL.
(3) The FANIL of a constituent entity of an MNE group that is an
insurer for a financial year must be adjusted to exclude any expense
resulting from any change in its insurance reserves in the financial
year where the change is economically matched by excluded
dividends (after deducting any investment management fees of the
constituent entity paid from such excluded dividends) from a security
held by the insurer on behalf of a policyholder.
(4) The FANIL of a constituent entity of an MNE group that is an
insurer for a financial year must be adjusted to exclude any expense
resulting from any change in its insurance reserves in the financial
year where the change is economically matched by an excluded
equity gain or loss from a security held by the insurer on behalf of a
policyholder.
Exclusion of intra-group financing arrangement expenses
23.—(1) Where an intra-group financing arrangement could be
reasonably expected, over the expected duration of the arrangement,
to increase the expenses of a low tax constituent entity of an MNE
group for a financial year without a corresponding increase in the
income of a high tax constituent entity of that MNE group for that
financial year that is taxable in the jurisdiction in which the high tax
constituent entity is located, the FANIL of the low tax constituent
entity for that financial year must be adjusted to exclude those
expenses.
(2) Paragraph (1) does not apply if the low tax constituent entity is
required to include those expenses in its FANIL under regulation 24.
(3) In this regulation —
“high tax constituent entity” means a constituent entity of an
MNE group located in a jurisdiction where the relevant
effective tax rate for that constituent entity would, ignoring
intra‑group financing arrangements, be 15% or more;
“intra-group financing arrangement” means an arrangement
between 2 or more constituent entities of an MNE group
S 1062/2024
36
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

under which a high tax constituent entity directly or indirectly
provides credit or otherwise makes an investment in a low tax
constituent entity;
“low tax constituent entity” means a constituent entity of an
MNE group located in a jurisdiction where the relevant
effective tax rate for that constituent entity would, ignoring
intra‑group financing arrangements, be less than 15%;
“relevant effective tax rate”, in relation to a constituent entity of
an MNE group located in a jurisdiction, means —
(a) where the constituent entity is not a special entity —
the effective tax rate (as determined under section 17)
for the constituent entities (not being special entities)
of that MNE group located in that jurisdiction;
(b) where it is a stateless entity — its effective tax rate
(as determined under section 22);
(c) where it is a minority-owned constituent entity — the
effective tax rate (as determined under section 23) for
the constituent entities of that MNE group that are
minority‑owned constituent entities located in that
jurisdiction; or
(d) where it is an investment entity or insurance
investment
entity
—
the
effective
tax
rate
(as determined under section 24) for the constituent
entities of that MNE group that are investment
entities or insurance investment entities located in
that jurisdiction.
(4) In the application under regulation 10(2) of this regulation to a
standalone JVor an entity of a JV group located in a jurisdiction, the
relevant effective tax rate for the standalone JV or entity is the
effective tax rate (as determined under section 25) for the standalone
JV or entities of the JV group located in that jurisdiction.
Additional tier one capital
24.—(1) Where a constituent entity of an MNE group records an
amount of decrease in its equity for a financial year that is attributable
S 1062/2024
37
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

to distributions paid or payable in respect of additional tier one capital
issued by the constituent entity and the same amount is not taken into
account in its FANIL for that financial year, its FANIL for that
financial year must be adjusted to take that amount into account as an
expense.
(2) Where a constituent entity of an MNE group records an amount
of increase in its equity for a financial year that is attributable to
distributions
received
or
receivable
in
respect
of
additional
tier one capital held by the constituent entity and the same amount
is not taken into account in its FANIL for that financial year, its
FANIL for that financial year must be adjusted to take that amount
into account as income.
(3) In this regulation, “additional tier one capital” means an
instrument issued by an entity pursuant to regulatory requirements
applicable to the banking or insurance sector that is convertible to
equity or written down if a pre‑specified trigger event occurs and that
has other features which are designed to aid loss absorbency in the
event of a financial crisis.
Exclusion of international shipping income and ancillary
international shipping income
25.—(1) Where the FANIL of a constituent entity of an MNE group
for a financial year includes any international shipping income or
ancillary international shipping income, its FANIL for that financial
year must be adjusted as follows:
(a) if its international shipping income or its ancillary
international shipping income is less than nil — each of
such amount is excluded from its FANIL;
(b) if its international shipping income is a positive amount —
that amount is excluded from its FANIL;
(c) if its ancillary international shipping income is a positive
amount — the specified amount of such income is
excluded from its FANIL.
(2) Paragraph (1) only applies if, in the financial year, the strategic
or commercial management of any ship used in international shipping
S 1062/2024
38
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

giving rise to the income in question is effectively carried on within
the jurisdiction where the constituent entity is located.
[S 129/2025 wef 25/02/2025]
(3) In this regulation, the international shipping income of a
constituent entity for a financial year is its net income (or loss) from
international shipping activities for the financial year after taking into
account —
(a) costs incurred in that financial year by the constituent
entity directly attributable to those international shipping
activities; and
(b) the relevant proportion of the indirect costs incurred in that
financial year by the constituent entity that is attributable to
those international shipping activities.
(4) In this regulation, the ancillary international shipping income of
a constituent entity for a financial year is its net income (or loss) from
ancillary international shipping activities for the financial year after
taking into account —
(a) costs incurred in that financial year by the constituent
entity directly attributable to those ancillary international
shipping activities; and
(b) the relevant proportion of the indirect costs incurred in that
financial year by the constituent entity that is attributable to
those ancillary international shipping activities.
(5) In paragraphs (3)(b) and (4)(b), the relevant proportion for a
financial year is the revenue of the constituent entity from
international shipping activities or ancillary international shipping
activities (as the case may be) for that financial year divided by its
total revenue for that financial year.
(6) In
paragraph
(1)(c),
the
specified
amount
of
ancillary
international shipping income for a constituent entity of an MNE
group located in a jurisdiction for a financial year is —
A  B
C ;
S 1062/2024
39
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

where —
(a) A is the lower of C and the ancillary international shipping
income cap for the MNE group for that jurisdiction for that
financial year;
(b) B is the ancillary international shipping income for that
financial year of the constituent entity if such amount is a
positive amount, otherwise B is nil; and
(c) C is the sum of any positive amount of ancillary
international shipping income for that financial year of
each of the constituent entities of the MNE group located
in the same jurisdiction.
(7) In this regulation —
“ancillary international shipping activities” means the following
activities performed by a constituent entity of an MNE group
primarily in connection with international shipping:
(a) leasing as lessor a ship to be used for international
shipping, where the ship is leased on a bareboat
charter to a lessee which is a shipping enterprise, and
which is not a constituent entity of the same MNE
group for a period not exceeding 3 years;
(b) selling tickets for a domestic leg of an international
voyage carried out by another shipping enterprise;
(c) leasing as lessor a container used for international
shipping;
(d) storing a container used for international shipping
temporarily;
(e) providing engineering, maintenance, cargo handling,
catering and customer relations services to shipping
enterprises;
(f) ancillary investment activities carried on as an
integral part of international shipping operations;
“ancillary international shipping income cap”, in relation to an
MNE group for a jurisdiction for a financial year, is —
S 1062/2024
40
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

(a) 50% of the sum of the international shipping income
for that financial year of the constituent entities of the
MNE group located in the same jurisdiction as the
constituent entity (including that constituent entity),
if such sum is a positive amount; and
(b) nil, if such sum is nil or less;
“international shipping” means any transportation of passengers
or cargo by ship, except where the ship is operated solely
between places within a single jurisdiction, but does not
include towing or dredging;
“international shipping activities” means the following activities
performed by a constituent entity of an MNE group:
(a) carrying out international shipping, whether alone or
in conjunction with another person;
(b) leasing as lessor a ship to be used for international
shipping, where —
(i) the ship is leased fully equipped, crewed and
supplied; or
(ii) the ship is leased on a bareboat charter to
another constituent entity of the same MNE
group for international shipping;
(c) transportation of passengers or cargo by ship in
international
shipping
under
a
slot-chartering
arrangement;
(d) the sale of a ship used in international shipping,
where the ship has been held for use by the
constituent entity for at least one year.
Division 2 — Adjustments in relation to
permanent establishments and flow-through entities
Adjustment for main entity
26. Subject to regulation 27, where a constituent entity of an MNE
group is a main entity of a permanent establishment, its FANIL must
S 1062/2024
41
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

be adjusted so as to not take into account the FANIL of the permanent
establishment.
Allocation of loss to main entity
27.—(1) Where, after making the adjustments in these Regulations
(other than this regulation), the FANIL for a financial year of a
constituent entity of an MNE group that is a permanent establishment
is a loss, the loss is to be allocated to the main entity of the permanent
establishment to the extent that the loss —
(a) is treated as an expense of the main entity for the
computation of tax in the jurisdiction where it is located;
and
(b) is not set off against income that is subject to tax under the
laws of both the jurisdictions where the permanent
establishment and the main entity are located.
(1A) Chapter 3.2.2 of the June 2024 Administrative Guidance
applies for the purpose of determining the extent that a loss
mentioned in paragraph (1) is treated as an expense of the main
entity for the computation of tax in the jurisdiction where it is located.
[S 860/2025 wef 31/12/2025]
(2) Where an amount of loss (A) has been allocated to the main
entity of a permanent establishment in paragraph (1) and, in a
subsequent financial year, the permanent establishment has a positive
amount of FANIL after making the adjustments in these Regulations
(other
than
this
regulation),
the
FANIL
of
the
permanent
establishment for that financial year is to be allocated from the
permanent establishment to the main entity of the permanent
establishment until an amount of the FANIL of the permanent
establishment equal to A is allocated to the main entity of the
permanent establishment (in that or subsequent financial years).
Adjustment for constituent entity owners of flow-through
entity
28. Where any part of the FANIL for a financial year of a
flow‑through entity of an MNE group is allocated to any constituent
entity (X) of that MNE group that has an ownership interest in the
S 1062/2024
42
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

flow‑through entity, the FANIL so allocated is to be adjusted under
these Regulations as if the FANIL were part of the FANIL of X for
that financial year.
[S 860/2025 wef 31/12/2025]
Division 3 — Optional adjustments
Election for company in distress
29.—(1) This regulation applies to a constituent entity of an MNE
group for a financial year where —
(a) it is released from an obligation to pay a debt;
(b) an amount of income is reflected in the FANIL of the
constituent entity for that financial year in respect of the
release;
(c) the release —
(i) is made pursuant to insolvency, bankruptcy or
similar proceedings in the jurisdiction where it is
located;
(ii) is made pursuant to an arrangement with a creditor
who is not connected with the constituent entity, and
the constituent entity has obtained an independent
expert opinion that it will not be able to meet
payments due within the next 12 months to persons
who are not connected with it; or
(iii) is made in a case where sub‑paragraphs (i) and (ii) do
not apply and by a creditor who is not connected with
the constituent entity, and, at the time of the release,
the liabilities of the constituent entity exceed the fair
market value of the assets of the constituent entity;
and
(d) the filing entity of the MNE group makes an election in a
GloBE information return (whether filed in Singapore or in
another jurisdiction) in accordance with the GloBE rules
that this regulation is to apply to the constituent entity for
that financial year.
S 1062/2024
43
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

(2) Where this regulation applies to a constituent entity, and
paragraph (1)(c)(i) or (ii) applies, its FANIL must be adjusted to
exclude —
(a) any income recognised in respect of the release from an
obligation to pay a debt made pursuant to an arrangement
with a creditor who is not connected with the constituent
entity; and
(b) any income recognised in respect of the release from an
obligation to pay a debt due to a creditor who is connected
with the constituent entity, but only if the release is
undertaken as part of the same arrangement as that in
sub‑paragraph (a).
[S 860/2025 wef 31/12/2025]
(3) Where this regulation applies to a constituent entity, and
paragraph (1)(c)(iii) applies, its FANIL must be adjusted by
deducting the lowest of —
(a) the amount of income recognised in respect of the release;
(b) the amount by which its liabilities exceed the fair market
value of its assets before the release; and
(c) the amount of any tax attributes of the constituent entity
reduced as a result of the release.
(4) In paragraph (3)(c), “tax attributes” means any loss, deduction,
allowance, credit or similar attribute for the reduction of tax
recognised under the law of the jurisdiction in which the
constituent entity is located.
Election to use realisation principle
30.—(1) The filing entity of an MNE group may make an election
in a GloBE information return (whether filed in Singapore or in
another jurisdiction) in accordance with the GloBE rules that all of
the constituent entities of the MNE group located in a jurisdiction, or
all of the constituent entities of the MNE group located in a
jurisdiction that are investment entities, are to use the realisation
principle in determining gains and losses in relation to —
S 1062/2024
44
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

(a) all assets and liabilities that are subject to fair value or
impairment accounting; or
(b) tangible assets that are subject to fair value or impairment
accounting.
(2) If an election in paragraph (1) is effective for a financial year in
relation to the constituent entities located in a jurisdiction as
described in that paragraph, the FANIL for that financial year of
each of those constituent entities must be adjusted to take the
following into account:
(a) gains and losses in relation to the assets or liabilities to
which the election applies that are attributable to fair value
or impairment accounting are excluded;
(b) the carrying value of an asset or liability to which the
election applies that is used to determine any gain or loss in
respect of that asset or liability, is the carrying value of that
asset or liability at the later of —
(i) the commencement of the first financial year for
which the election applies; and
(ii) the time the asset was acquired or the liability was
incurred.
(3) If an election in paragraph (1) is revoked, the FANIL of each
constituent entity in respect of which the election was made must be
adjusted to include the relevant amount as income or loss in the first
financial year for which the election ceases to apply.
(4) An election under paragraph (1) must not be revoked for the
financial year for which it is made or for any of the subsequent
4 financial years, and any such revocation has no effect.
(5) If an election under paragraph (1) is revoked for a financial year,
another election under that paragraph must not be made (whether in
Singapore or in another jurisdiction) in respect of the constituent
entities located in that jurisdiction for that or any of the subsequent
4 financial years, and any such election has no effect.
(6) In paragraph (3), the “relevant amount”, in relation to a
constituent entity, is the aggregate of A −B, for each asset or
S 1062/2024
45
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

liability that was subject to the election in paragraph (1) and that
remains held by the constituent entity on the first day of the
first financial year for which the election ceases to apply, where —
(a) A is the fair value of the asset or liability on that day; and
(b) B is the carrying value of the asset or liability as
determined in accordance with paragraph (2)(b).
Election to reflect deductions for stock-based compensation
31.—(1) The filing entity of an MNE group may make an election
in a GloBE information return (whether filed in Singapore or in
another jurisdiction) in accordance with the GloBE rules that the
constituent entities of the MNE group located in a jurisdiction are to
adjust their FANIL to take into account as an expense the amount
deducted for tax purposes in that jurisdiction for any stock‑based
compensation incurred by those constituent entities in lieu of the
expense otherwise recognised for the stock‑based compensation.
(2) If an election in paragraph (1) is effective for a financial year in
relation to the constituent entities located in a jurisdiction, the FANIL
for that financial year of each of those constituent entities must be
adjusted as follows:
(a) the amount that was allowed to the constituent entity as a
deduction for tax purposes for that financial year in that
jurisdiction for any stock‑based compensation is treated as
the expense for the stock‑based compensation in lieu of the
expense that would otherwise be recognised for the
stock‑based compensation;
(b) where any stock-based compensation is an option that
expires without exercise in the financial year, the total
amount of the expenses recognised in previous financial
years
under
sub‑paragraph
(a)
in
respect
of
that
stock‑based compensation is treated as income.
(2A) Where an election in paragraph (1) is effective as described in
paragraph (2) and an amount of stock-based compensation expense
that was deducted for tax purposes is added to the carrying value of an
S 1062/2024
46
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

asset, that amount so added must be excluded in determining the
GloBE income or loss arising from that asset.
[S 860/2025 wef 31/12/2025]
(3) Where an election in paragraph (1) is made and —
(a) expenses for stock-based compensation were taken into
account in the FANIL of a constituent entity in any
financial year before the election was effective; and
(b) the sum of those expenses exceeds the sum of what those
expenses would have been under paragraph (2)(a) had the
election been in effect for that financial year,
the FANIL of that constituent entity for the first financial year for
which the election is effective must be adjusted to include the amount
of that excess as income.
(4) Where an election in paragraph (1) is revoked, then, if —
(a) any stock-based compensation for which an expense has
been recognised for a constituent entity in accordance with
paragraph (2)(a) has not been paid on the first day of the
first financial year for which the election ceases to apply;
and
(b) the total amount of expenses recognised in accordance
with paragraph (2)(a) for that stock‑based compensation
exceeds the total amount of expenses that would have been
recognised for that stock-based compensation had the
election not been made,
the FANIL of that constituent entity for the first financial year for
which the election ceases to apply must be adjusted to include the
amount of that excess as income.
(5) An election under paragraph (1) must not be revoked for the
financial year for which it is made or for any of the subsequent
4 financial years, and any such revocation has no effect.
(6) If an election under paragraph (1) is revoked for a financial year,
another election under that paragraph must not be made (whether in
Singapore or in another jurisdiction) in respect of the constituent
S 1062/2024
47
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

entities located in that jurisdiction for that or any of the subsequent
4 financial years, and any such election has no effect.
Election to recognise gains over 5 years
32.—(1) The filing entity of an MNE group may make an election
in a GloBE information return (whether filed in Singapore or in
another jurisdiction) in accordance with the GloBE rules that the net
gain (called the relevant gain) from the disposal of local tangible
assets by the constituent entities of the MNE group located in a
jurisdiction (jurisdiction X) in a financial year (called FY5) is to be
allocated between the constituent entities located in jurisdiction X for
FY5 and the previous 4 financial years (collectively called the
carry‑back period) in accordance with paragraph (2).
(2) If an election in paragraph (1) is made, the relevant gain is to be
allocated between the constituent entities located in jurisdiction X in
the following manner:
(a) first, the relevant gain is allocated to the constituent entities
that have a net loss from any disposal of local tangible
assets in the first financial year of the carry‑back period if
that financial year is a loss year, as a gain for that financial
year in the following manner:
(i) if the relevant gain is equal to or exceeds the total net
losses of all constituent entities of the MNE group
located in jurisdiction X that have a net loss from the
disposal of local tangible assets in that financial year,
an amount of the relevant gain is allocated to each of
those constituent entities up to the amount of the net
loss of that constituent entity;
(ii) if the relevant gain is less than the total net losses of
all constituent entities of the MNE group located in
jurisdiction X that have a net loss from the disposal of
local tangible assets in that financial year, the
relevant gain is allocated proportionately between
those constituent entities according to the amount of
the net loss of each of those constituent entities over
S 1062/2024
48
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

the amount of all the net losses of those constituent
entities;
(b) then, any relevant gain not allocated in sub‑paragraph (a) is
allocated to all constituent entities of the MNE group that
have a net loss from the disposal of local tangible assets in
the second financial year of the carry‑back period if that
financial year is a loss year, as a gain for that financial year
in the same manner as in sub‑paragraph (a);
(c) then, any relevant gain not allocated in sub‑paragraph (a)
or (b) is allocated to all constituent entities of the MNE
group that have a net loss from the disposal of local
tangible assets in the third financial year of the carry‑back
period if that financial year is a loss year, as a gain for that
financial year in the same manner as in sub‑paragraph (a);
(d) then, any relevant gain not allocated in sub‑paragraph (a),
(b) or (c) is allocated to all constituent entities of the MNE
group that have a net loss from the disposal of local
tangible assets in the fourth financial year of the carry‑back
period if that financial year is a loss year, as a gain for that
financial year in the same manner as in sub‑paragraph (a);
(e) then, any relevant gain not allocated in sub‑paragraph (a),
(b), (c) or (d) is allocated to all constituent entities of the
MNE group that have a net loss from the disposal of local
tangible assets in the fifth financial year of the carry‑back
period if that financial year is a loss year, as a gain for that
financial year in the same manner as in sub‑paragraph (a);
(f) then, any relevant gain not allocated in sub‑paragraph (a),
(b), (c), (d) or (e) is allocated to all constituent entities of
the MNE group that have a net gain from the disposal of
local tangible assets in the fifth financial year of the
carry‑back period in the following manner:
(i) for each financial year in the carry‑back period, 20%
of that remaining relevant gain is allocated to those
constituent entities that are located in the jurisdiction
of the local tangible assets for that financial year;
S 1062/2024
49
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

(ii) for each financial year in the carry‑back period, that
amount of the relevant gain in sub‑paragraph (i) is
allocated proportionately between those constituent
entities referred to in that sub‑paragraph as a gain for
that financial year, according to the amount of the net
gain from the disposal of local tangible assets in the
fifth financial year of the carry‑back period of each
of those constituent entities over the amount of all
the net gains of those constituent entities;
(g) if, in the application of sub‑paragraph (f)(i) for any
financial year in the carry‑back period, there is no
constituent entity that is located in the jurisdiction of the
local tangible assets that has a net gain from the disposal of
local tangible assets in the fifth financial year of the
carry‑back
period,
the
amount
specified
in
sub‑paragraph (f)(i) for the firstmentioned financial year
is to be allocated equally between the constituent entities
located in that jurisdiction for that financial year as a gain
for that financial year.
(3) An election in paragraph (1) does not apply to any gain or loss
arising from the transfer of assets between members of the same
MNE group.
(4) If an election in paragraph (1) is made, the FANIL of a
constituent entity located in jurisdiction X for each financial year in
the carry‑back period must be adjusted to take any gain allocated in
accordance with paragraph (2) into account as income.
(5) Where the FANIL of a constituent entity for a financial year is
adjusted in paragraph (4), the following are to be recalculated for that
financial year:
(a) the effective tax rate (as determined under section 17,
including that section as applied by section 22, 23 or 25, or
section 24, as the case may be) for the constituent entities
of the MNE group located in jurisdiction X for that
financial year;
(b) the top-up amounts (if any) for those constituent entities
for that financial year,
S 1062/2024
50
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

and section 21(4) (or that provision as applied by section 22, 23, 24 or
25, as the case may be) applies accordingly.
(6) In this regulation —
“local tangible asset” means immovable property in the
jurisdiction where the constituent entity disposing of it is
located;
“loss year” means a financial year where both of the following
apply:
(a) at least one constituent entity located in jurisdiction X
for that financial year has a net loss from the disposal
of local tangible assets in that financial year;
(b) the sum of the net losses from the disposal of local
tangible assets in that financial year of all constituent
entities located in jurisdiction X in that financial year
exceeds the sum of the net gains from the disposal of
local tangible assets in that financial year of those
constituent entities;
“net gain”, in relation to a disposal of local tangible assets by a
constituent entity in a financial year, means the amount of the
net gains of the constituent entity as a result of such disposal,
excluding any gain or loss arising from the transfer of assets
between members of the same MNE group;
“net loss”, in relation to a disposal of local tangible assets by a
constituent entity in a financial year, means the amount of the
net losses of the constituent entity as a result of such
disposal —
(a) that excludes any gain or loss arising from the
transfer of assets between members of the same MNE
group; and
(b) that is reduced by any relevant gain that was allocated
to the constituent entity by a previous application of
paragraph (2).
S 1062/2024
51
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

Election to exclude intra-group transactions
33.—(1) The filing entity of an MNE group may make an election
in a GloBE information return (whether filed in Singapore or in
another jurisdiction) in accordance with the GloBE rules that the
constituent entities of the MNE group that are located in the same
jurisdiction and are included in a tax consolidation group are to apply
the consolidated accounting treatment of the ultimate parent entity to
eliminate
income,
expenses,
gains
and
losses
arising
from
transactions between those constituent entities.
(2) Where an election under paragraph (1) is effective for a
financial year, the FANIL for that financial year of each of those
constituent entities must be adjusted accordingly.
(3) Where an election is made under paragraph (1), the FANIL of
the constituent entities to which the election applies must be adjusted
in the first financial year for which the election has effect, to ensure
that there are no duplications or omissions of items of income,
expenses, gains or losses arising from the making of the election.
(4) If
the
election
is
subsequently
revoked,
then,
in
the
first financial year for which the election ceases to apply, the
FANIL of the constituent entities to which the election applies must
be adjusted to ensure that there are no duplications or omissions of
items of income, expenses, gains or losses arising from the revocation
of the election.
(5) In paragraph (1), the constituent entities of an MNE group
located in a jurisdiction are included in a tax consolidation group if,
under the law of that jurisdiction, the income, expenses, gains or
losses of those constituent entities may for tax purposes be
aggregated, surrendered to each other or otherwise shared or
transferred between them as a result of a connection between those
constituent entities.
(6) An election under paragraph (1) must not be revoked for the
financial year for which it is made or for any of the subsequent
4 financial years, and any such revocation has no effect.
(7) If an election under paragraph (1) is revoked for a financial year,
another election under that paragraph must not be made (whether in
S 1062/2024
52
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

Singapore or in another jurisdiction) in respect of the constituent
entities located in that jurisdiction for that or any of the subsequent
4 financial years, and any such election has no effect.
Election for excluded equity gains and losses to be included
34.—(1) The filing entity of an MNE group may make an election
in a GloBE information return (whether filed in Singapore or in
another jurisdiction) in accordance with the GloBE rules that the
excluded equity gains or losses specified in paragraph (3) of the
constituent entities of the MNE group located in a jurisdiction are to
be included in the FANIL of those constituent entities.
(2) Where an election under paragraph (1) is effective for a
financial year, the FANIL for that financial year of each of those
constituent entities must be adjusted accordingly.
(3) An election in paragraph (1) applies to the following excluded
equity gains or losses of a constituent entity:
(a) excluded equity gains or losses that are subject to covered
taxes in the jurisdiction where the constituent entity is
located;
(b) excluded equity gains or losses (being changes in fair value
of direct ownership interests in an entity or impairments on
direct ownership interests in an entity) that are not subject
to covered taxes if the gains or losses on the disposition of
those direct ownership interests would be subject to
covered taxes in the jurisdiction where the constituent
entity is located.
(4) Despite an election in paragraph (1), excluded equity gains or
losses in respect of a qualified ownership interest (as defined in
regulation 42(5)) owned by a constituent entity must not be included
as income in the FANIL of a constituent entity.
(5) A revocation of an election in paragraph (1) does not have effect
in relation to the gains, profits or losses of a constituent entity arising
from any direct ownership interests in another entity if —
S 1062/2024
53
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

(a) a loss in respect of those direct ownership interests has
been included in the GloBE income or loss of that
constituent entity for any financial year; and
(b) that loss would otherwise have been excluded under
regulation 14,
and accordingly, the election in paragraph (1) continues to apply to
gains, profits and losses in respect of those direct ownership interests.
(6) An election under paragraph (1) must not be revoked for the
financial year for which it is made or for any of the subsequent
4 financial years, and any such revocation has no effect.
(7) If an election under paragraph (1) is revoked for a financial year,
another election under that paragraph must not be made (whether in
Singapore or in another jurisdiction) in respect of the constituent
entities located in that jurisdiction for that or any of the subsequent
4 financial years, and any such election has no effect.
Election for foreign exchange risk hedges
35.—(1) The filing entity of an MNE group may make an election
in a GloBE information return (whether filed in Singapore or in
another jurisdiction) in accordance with the GloBE rules that the
FANIL of a constituent entity of the MNE group is to be adjusted to
exclude the gains or losses in paragraph (3) of that constituent entity.
(2) Where an election under paragraph (1) is effective for a
financial year, the FANIL for that financial year of that constituent
entity must be adjusted accordingly.
(3) An election in paragraph (1) applies to gains or losses of a
constituent entity arising from fluctuations in exchange rates to the
extent that —
(a) a gain or loss is attributable to an instrument intended to act
as a hedge against currency risk in ownership interests in
any entity held by the constituent entity of the MNE group,
not being a portfolio shareholding;
(b) the gain or loss is recorded in other comprehensive income
in the consolidated financial statements of the ultimate
parent entity of the MNE group;
S 1062/2024
54
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

(c) the instrument is considered an effective net investment
hedge under the authorised financial accounting standard
upon which those statements are prepared;
(d) where the instrument is held by the constituent entity, the
economic and accounting effect of the hedge has not been
transferred to any other entity; and
(e) where the instrument is not held by the constituent entity,
the economic and accounting effect of the hedge has been
transferred to the constituent entity.
(4) An election under paragraph (1) must not be revoked for the
financial year for which it is made or for any of the subsequent
4 financial years, and any such revocation has no effect.
(5) If an election under paragraph (1) is revoked for a financial year,
another election under that paragraph must not be made (whether in
Singapore or in another jurisdiction) in respect of that constituent
entity for that or any of the subsequent 4 financial years, and any such
election has no effect.
Election where assets and liabilities adjusted to fair value for
tax purposes
36.—(1) The filing entity of an MNE group may make an election
in a GloBE information return (whether filed in Singapore or in
another jurisdiction) in accordance with the GloBE rules that the
FANIL for a financial year of a constituent entity of the MNE group,
that has a relevant tax adjustment in that financial year, is to be
adjusted in accordance with paragraph (2).
(2) Where an election in paragraph (1) is effective for a financial
year —
(a) that constituent entity has an adjustment amount in respect
of each of its assets or liabilities that are subject to a
relevant tax adjustment in that financial year; and
(b) the value of an asset or liability that is subject to a relevant
tax adjustment is to be treated, for the purpose of
determining the FANIL of that constituent entity for that
and any subsequent financial year, as its fair value
S 1062/2024
55
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

immediately after the occurrence of the event that caused,
or enabled, the relevant tax adjustment to be made.
(3) In paragraph (2)(a), the adjustment amount is the amount
given —
(a) by subtracting the carrying value of the asset or liability
immediately before the event that caused, or enabled, the
relevant tax adjustment to be made from the fair value of
the asset or liability immediately after the occurrence of
that event; and
(b) if that event results in a non-qualifying gain or loss
(as defined in regulation 61(9)) for the constituent entity —
(i) in the case of a non-qualifying gain — by reducing
the result of sub‑paragraph (a) by the amount of that
gain; or
(ii) in the case of a non‑qualifying loss — by increasing
the result of sub‑paragraph (a) by the amount of that
loss (expressed as a positive number).
(4) A constituent entity may —
(a) include the adjustment amount in paragraph (2)(a) in its
FANIL for the financial year in which the relevant tax
adjustment is made; or
(b) split that adjustment amount into 5 equal amounts to be
included in its FANIL for that financial year and the
subsequent 4 financial years.
(5) If paragraph (4)(b) applies and the constituent entity ceases to
be a constituent entity of the same MNE group before the end of the
fourth subsequent financial year, any amount of the adjustment
amount that has not been included in its FANIL for a previous
financial year is to be included in its FANIL for the financial year in
which it ceases to be a constituent entity of that MNE group.
(6) In this regulation —
“relevant tax adjustment” means an adjustment to the value of
assets or liabilities of a constituent entity of an MNE group
located in a jurisdiction to reflect the fair value of those assets
S 1062/2024
56
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

or liabilities, that is required or permitted to be made for tax
purposes under the law of that jurisdiction on the occurrence
of an event, but does not include adjustments made in
connection with transfer pricing, or the sale of trading stock
in the course of carrying on a trade;
“trading stock” has the meaning given by section 10J(9) of the
Income Tax Act 1947.
PART 5
ADJUSTMENTS TO QUALIFYING CURRENT
TAX EXPENSES, QUALIFYING DEFERRED
TAX EXPENSES AND ADJUSTED COVERED TAXES
Division 1 — Preliminary provisions
Purpose and application of this Part
37.—(1) This Part sets out the adjustments that must or may be
made for the purpose of arriving at the adjusted covered taxes of a
constituent entity of an MNE group.
(2) This Part applies to a standalone JV or an entity of a JV group
with the following modifications:
(a) except in sub‑paragraph (b), references to an MNE group
are to the standalone JVor the JV group of which the entity
is a part;
(b) references to the filing entity of an MNE group are to the
filing entity of the MNE group to which the standalone JV
or entity is connected;
(c) references to a constituent entity are to the standalone JVor
the entity;
(d) other modifications in the provisions of this Part.
Amounts excluded from qualifying current tax expense
38.—(1) The qualifying current tax expense of a constituent entity
of an MNE group for a financial year must be adjusted to exclude the
S 1062/2024
57
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

amounts in paragraph (2) (to the extent they would otherwise be
included).
(2) Those amounts are —
(a) any amount of current tax expense that relates to income or
gains that are excluded from the computation of the GloBE
income or loss of the constituent entity for the financial
year;
(b) any amount of current tax expense that relates to an
uncertain tax position for the constituent entity for the
financial year;
(c) any reduction of current tax expense made in respect of a
qualified refundable tax credit or in respect of a marketable
transferable tax credit;
(d) any amount of current tax expense that is not expected to
be paid by the constituent entity before the end of the
period of 3 years commencing on the first day after the end
of the financial year;
(e) any amount of current tax expense that relates to a gain or
loss in respect of the disposal of local tangible assets
(as defined in regulation 32(6)) in the financial year for
which an election in regulation 32(1) is made for the
constituent entity;
(f) any amount of credit (whether refundable or not) or refund
for the constituent entity for the financial year, in respect of
covered taxes, that —
(i) is not a qualified refundable tax credit or a
marketable transferable tax credit; and
(ii) has not been taken into account in the qualifying
current tax expense for the constituent entity for that
financial year or a previous financial year;
(g) any amount of credit (other than one mentioned in
sub‑paragraph (f)) or refund in respect of a tax credit that
is not a qualified refundable tax credit or a marketable
transferrable tax credit; and
S 1062/2024
58
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

(h) any current tax expense for a previous financial year.
(3) The exclusion of the amount in paragraph (2)(h) is subject to
regulation 40(1) and (3).
(4) Despite paragraph (1), the refundable tax credits that accrued
prior to the beginning of the transition year of a constituent entity
(as defined in regulation 88) must not be treated as a reduction to the
qualifying current tax expense of the constituent entity for the
transition year or any subsequent financial year.
(5) In paragraph (4), “refundable tax credit” means a tax credit
(or an amount of tax credit) which is payable in cash or cash
equivalent to the constituent entity —
(a) after any liability to covered taxes has been reduced or
discharged by it; or
(b) in the absence of any tax liability to covered taxes.
Amounts taken into account in qualifying current tax expense
39.—(1) The qualifying current tax expense of a constituent entity
of an MNE group for a financial year must be adjusted to take into
account the adjustments in paragraph (2) (to the extent they were not
already taken into account).
(2) Those adjustments are —
(a) add any positive amount (and subtract any negative
amount) of covered taxes that would be (if not for
regulation 11) reflected in the FANIL of the constituent
entity for the financial year but which (if not for this
regulation) is not reflected in the qualifying current tax
expense of the constituent entity for the financial year;
(b) add any amount of covered taxes paid by, and subtract any
amount of covered taxes refunded to, the constituent entity
in the financial year that relates to an uncertain tax position
where the amount was excluded for a previous financial
year; and
(c) add any positive amount (and subtract any negative
amount) of covered taxes recorded in the equity or other
S 1062/2024
59
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

comprehensive income of the constituent entity for the
financial year, relating to amounts taken into account in the
GloBE income or loss of the constituent entity and that are
subject to covered taxes under the law of the jurisdiction
where the constituent entity is located.
(3) In making the adjustments in paragraph (2), no amount of
covered taxes may be taken into account more than once.
Post-filing adjustments and tax rate changes
40.—(1) If an adjustment is recorded in the financial statements for
a financial year in relation to the adjusted covered taxes of a
constituent entity for a previous financial year and, had the
adjustment been made in the previous financial year, there would
not be a decrease in the total adjusted covered taxes for that previous
financial year of the constituent entities of the MNE group located in
the same jurisdiction, the amount of the adjustment must be taken into
account in the adjusted covered taxes of the constituent entity for the
financial year in which the adjustment was made.
[S 860/2025 wef 31/12/2025]
(2) If an adjustment is recorded in the financial statements for a
financial year in relation to the adjusted covered taxes of a constituent
entity for a previous financial year and, had the adjustment been made
in the previous financial year, there would be a decrease in the total
adjusted covered taxes for that previous financial year of the
constituent entities of the MNE group located in the same
jurisdiction, the following must be recalculated for that previous
financial year and any subsequent financial year affected by such
adjustment, up to the financial year in which the adjustment was
made:
(a) the adjusted covered taxes of the constituent entity;
(b) if the decrease in the total adjusted covered taxes of the
constituent entities of the MNE group results from a
reduction in the GloBE income or loss of the constituent
entity, the GloBE income or loss of the constituent entity
but only to the extent necessary to prevent the top-up
amounts of those constituent entities from decreasing;
S 1062/2024
60
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

(c) the effective tax rate (as determined under section 17,
including that section as applied by section 22, 23 or 25, or
section 24, as the case may be) for the constituent entities
of the MNE group located in the same jurisdiction;
(d) the top-up amounts (if any) for those constituent entities,
and section 21(4) (or that provision as applied by section 22, 23, 24 or
25, as the case may be) applies accordingly.
[S 860/2025 wef 31/12/2025]
(3) If the decrease in the total adjusted covered taxes for a financial
year of the constituent entities of an MNE group located in a
jurisdiction mentioned in paragraph (2) is less than EUR 1 million,
the filing entity of that MNE group may elect in a GloBE information
return (whether filed in Singapore or in another jurisdiction) in
accordance with the GloBE rules for the adjustment mentioned in
paragraph (2) to be taken into account in the adjusted covered taxes of
the constituent entity for the financial year in which the adjustment
was made, and, where such election is effective, the adjustment must
be taken into account accordingly.
(4) Where an election described in paragraph (3) is not made and
the constituent entity offsets a loss arising in a financial year against
income of a previous financial year for tax purposes —
(a) the loss is treated as giving rise to a deferred tax asset in the
firstmentioned financial year, and regulation 45 applies
accordingly; and
(b) the deferred tax asset is deemed to have been used in the
previous
financial
year,
and
regulation
45
applies
accordingly.
(5) In paragraphs (1) and (3), the amount to be taken into account in
the adjusted covered taxes of the constituent entity for the financial
year in which the adjustment was made must be adjusted in
accordance with regulation 45(3) or (4), where applicable.
(6) Where any tax rate in respect of covered taxes for a constituent
entity is reduced to a rate less than the minimum rate, then —
(a) any negative amount of deferred tax expense recognised
for a financial year by that constituent entity as a result of
S 1062/2024
61
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

that reduction is treated as an adjustment made in that
financial year to decrease the corresponding qualifying
deferred tax expense of that constituent entity for a
previous financial year; and
(b) paragraphs (2) and (3) apply accordingly.
(7) Where any tax rate in respect of covered taxes for a constituent
entity is increased —
(a) any positive amount of deferred tax expense recognised for
a financial year by that constituent entity as a result of that
increase is treated as an adjustment made in the financial
year as described in sub‑paragraph (b) to increase the
corresponding qualifying deferred tax expense of that
constituent entity for a previous financial year up to the
maximum amount in sub‑paragraph (c);
(b) the adjustment mentioned in sub‑paragraph (a) is made in
the
financial
year
when
the
deferred
tax
liability
recognised as a result of that increase is reversed (on the
payment of the deferred tax);
(c) the increase of the corresponding qualifying deferred tax
expense mentioned in sub‑paragraph (a) is subject to a
maximum of A −B, where —
(i) A is the amount of that deferred tax expense if it had
been recognised on the basis of a tax rate equal to the
minimum rate; and
(ii) B is the original amount of that deferred tax expense;
and
(d) paragraph (1) applies accordingly.
(8) If any qualifying current tax expense for a financial year of a
constituent entity of an MNE group is not paid within 3 years of the
last day of that financial year, and the unpaid qualifying current tax
expense is more than EUR 1 million —
(a) the unpaid amount must be deducted from the adjusted
covered taxes of that constituent entity for that financial
year; and
S 1062/2024
62
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

(b) the following must be recalculated for that financial year:
(i) the effective tax rate (as determined under section 17,
including that section as applied by section 22, 23 or
25, or section 24, as the case may be) for the
constituent entities of the MNE group located in the
same jurisdiction;
(ii) the top-up amounts (if any) for those constituent
entities,
(b) and section 21(4) (or that provision as applied by
section 22, 23, 24 or 25, as the case may be) applies
accordingly.
Non-marketable transferable tax credits
41.—(1) The adjusted covered taxes for a financial year of a
constituent entity of an MNE group that is an originator of a
non‑marketable transferable tax credit that transfers the same in the
financial year, must be adjusted by treating the consideration for the
transfer as a negative amount of tax expense and treating the
non‑marketable transferable tax credit as having been used by that
constituent entity.
(2) The adjusted covered taxes for a financial year of a constituent
entity of an MNE group that is a purchaser of a non‑marketable
transferable tax credit must be adjusted as follows:
(a) any amount of the tax credit used to satisfy its liability for
covered taxes for the financial year is multiplied by —
A  B
A
;
(a) where —
(i) A is the full value of the tax credit; and
(ii) B is the price paid by the constituent entity for the tax
credit,
(a) and treated as a negative amount of tax expense;
S 1062/2024
63
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

(b) if the tax credit is transferred by the constituent entity in the
financial year, any positive amount computed by the
following formula is treated as a negative amount of tax
expense:
C þ D
ð
Þ  E þ F
ð
Þ;
(b) where —
(i) C is the consideration received by the entity for the
transfer;
(ii) D is the amount of the tax credit that has been used
by the entity for that financial year and all previous
financial years;
(iii) E is the consideration paid by the entity to acquire the
tax credit; and
(iv) F is the total negative amount of tax expense
recognised by the entity under sub‑paragraph (a) in
respect of the tax credit for that financial year and all
previous financial years;
(c) any other amount of the tax credit that is excluded from the
adjusted covered taxes is treated as a positive amount of
tax expense.
Qualified flow-through tax benefits
42.—(1) Where an election in regulation 34(1) is effective in
relation to a constituent entity of an MNE group for a financial year,
the adjusted covered taxes of the constituent entity for the financial
year must be adjusted —
(a) to treat the amount of any qualified flow-through tax
benefits from a qualified ownership interest received by
the constituent entity in the financial year as a positive
amount of tax expense, to the extent that they have been
excluded;
(b) to treat the amount of any other flow-through tax benefits
(that are not qualified) from the qualified ownership
interest received by the constituent entity in the financial
S 1062/2024
64
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

year as a negative amount of tax expense, to the extent that
they have not already been so taken into account; and
(c) to treat the amount of any qualified refundable tax credit,
and any proceeds and distributions from the qualified
ownership interest received by the constituent entity in the
financial year, as negative tax expenses, but only to the
extent that the total value of the amount and of the proceeds
and distributions for the financial year and any prior
financial year does not exceed the total value of the amount
mentioned in sub‑paragraph (a) for the financial year and
any prior financial year.
(2) The amount of qualified flow-through tax benefits from a
qualified ownership interest received by a constituent entity in a
financial year is —
(a) if
the
constituent
entity
applies
the
proportional
amortisation
method
for
accounting
purposes,
or
irrevocably elects to adopt the proportional amortisation
method for the purpose of this regulation —
(i) where the total value of the proceeds, distributions
and flow‑through tax benefits from the qualified
ownership interest received in the financial year does
not exceed the amortisation expense for the financial
year under the proportional amortisation method —
the amount of the flow‑through tax benefits received
in the financial year; and
(ii) where the total value of the proceeds, distributions
and flow‑through tax benefits from the qualified
ownership interest received in the financial year
exceeds the amortisation expense for the financial
year under the proportional amortisation method —
the amount of the flow‑through tax benefits received
in the financial year reduced by the amount of such
excess but not below nil; and
(b) in any other case — the amount of the flow-through tax
benefits received in the financial year, but only to the
extent that the total value of the proceeds, distributions and
S 1062/2024
65
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

flow-through tax benefits from the qualified ownership
interest received in the financial year and all previous
financial years does not exceed the investment in the
qualified ownership interest.
(3) The filing entity of an MNE group may make an election in
accordance with the GloBE rules to adopt the proportional
amortisation method in relation to a qualified ownership interest
received by a constituent entity of the MNE group in a financial year
for the purpose of paragraph (2)(a).
(4) An election must be made in the later of the following:
(a) the financial year in which the constituent entity acquired
the qualified ownership interest;
(b) the first in-scope year of the constituent entity.
(5) In this regulation —
“flow-through tax benefits” means tax credits (not being
qualified refundable tax credits) and the value of tax
deductible losses made available to the owner of qualified
ownership interest;
“proportional
amortisation
method”
means a
method
of
accounting under which —
(a) the investment in the qualified ownership interest is
amortised over the term of the investment with the
amortisation expense for a financial year based on the
proportion of the flow‑through tax benefits received
in the financial year over the flow-through tax
benefits expected to be provided over the term of
the investment; and
(b) the difference between the flow‑through tax benefits
received and the amortisation expense for the
financial year is reflected as a tax expense;
“qualified ownership interest” means an investment in a
flow‑through entity by a constituent entity of an MNE
group where —
S 1062/2024
66
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

(a) the flow-through entity is not a reverse hybrid entity
with respect to the income, expenditure, profit or loss
attributable to the constituent entity;
(b) the investment is treated as equity —
(i) for tax purposes in the jurisdiction where the
constituent entity is located; and
(ii) under
an
authorised
financial
accounting
standard
in
the
jurisdiction
where
the
flow‑through entity operates;
(c) the flow-through entity is not a constituent entity of
the MNE group;
(d) it is reasonable to expect, at the time of making the
investment, that the return on the investment would
be negative if not for the availability of flow‑through
tax benefits;
(e) the constituent entity has a genuine economic interest
in the flow-through entity and is not protected from
loss on the investment; and
(f) flow-through tax benefits under the investment are
available to the constituent entity whether or not the
MNE group is subject to MTT or a qualified IIR.
Division 2 — Allocation of covered taxes
Permanent establishments
43.—(1) Where any GloBE income or loss of a permanent
establishment is allocated to the main entity of the permanent
establishment in regulation 27(2), the qualifying current tax expense
in relation to such GloBE income or loss must be allocated to that
main entity.
(2) But the amount allocated in accordance with paragraph (1) must
not exceed the amount given by multiplying the amount of the GloBE
income or loss described in that paragraph by the highest corporate
tax rate on ordinary income in the jurisdiction where the main entity
is located.
S 1062/2024
67
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

(3) Any deferred tax asset arising under the tax law of the
jurisdiction where a permanent establishment is located with
respect to a loss that is allocated to the main entity of the
permanent establishment in regulation 27(1) must be disregarded in
determining
the
adjusted
covered
taxes
of
the
permanent
establishment.
Reallocation of tax expenses
44.—(1) Where a constituent entity of an MNE group is subject to
taxation under a controlled foreign company tax regime on the
income of a controlled foreign company for a financial year, the
qualifying current tax expense or qualifying deferred tax expense of
that constituent entity arising under that regime must be allocated to
that controlled foreign company if that controlled foreign company is
a constituent entity of that MNE group.
(2) Where a constituent entity of an MNE group is subject to
taxation under a blended CFC regime on the income of its controlled
foreign companies for a financial year that commences on or before
31 December 2025 and ends on or before 30 June 2027 —
(a) the qualifying current tax expense or qualifying deferred
tax expense of the constituent entity arising under that
regime in respect of each of its controlled foreign
companies is determined by the formula —
A
B  C;
(a) where —
(i) A is the blended CFC allocation key of the
constituent
entity
for
the
controlled
foreign
company;
(ii) B is the sum of the blended CFC allocation keys of
the constituent entity for all its controlled foreign
companies; and
(iii) C is the qualifying current tax expense or qualifying
deferred tax expense (as the case may be) of the
S 1062/2024
68
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

constituent entity arising under that regime in respect
of all its controlled foreign companies; and
(b) the amount computed in sub‑paragraph (a) in respect of a
controlled foreign company must be —
(i) excluded from the adjusted covered taxes of that
constituent entity if that controlled foreign company
is not a constituent entity of the MNE group; and
(ii) allocated under paragraph (1) to that controlled
foreign company if it is a constituent entity of the
MNE group.
(3) [Deleted by S 129/2025 wef 25/02/2025]
(4) Where any qualifying current tax expense or qualifying deferred
tax expense for a financial year of a constituent entity of an MNE
group is in respect of a distribution received (including any deemed
distribution in respect of undistributed earnings or capital) from
another constituent entity of the MNE group in which that constituent
entity has a direct ownership interest, that qualifying current tax
expense or qualifying deferred tax expense must be allocated to that
other constituent entity.
(5) Where —
(a) a constituent entity of an MNE group holds an ownership
interest in an entity (X); and
(b) X is a hybrid entity with respect to any of its income
(including any income allocated to X from a flow-through
entity under paragraph 6(9) or (12) of the First Schedule to
the Act) that is attributable to such ownership interest,
then any qualifying current tax expense or qualifying deferred tax
expense of the constituent entity for a financial year that is in respect
of that income must be allocated to X.
[S 860/2025 wef 31/12/2025]
(5A) Where —
(a) either —
(i) a constituent entity (Y1) of an MNE group is a
reference entity in relation to another constituent
S 1062/2024
69
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

entity of the MNE group that is a flow-through entity
(Z); or
(ii) a constituent entity (Y2) of an MNE group holds an
indirect ownership interest in another constituent
entity of the MNE group that is a flow-through entity
(also Z) through a constituent entity (also Y1) of the
MNE group that is a reference entity in relation to Z,
and Y2 is not a reference entity in relation to Z; and
(b) Z is a reverse hybrid entity with respect to any of its income
that is attributable to Y1,
then any qualifying current tax expense or qualifying deferred tax
expense of Y1 or Y2 for a financial year, to the extent that it is in
respect of income that is attributable to Y1, must be allocated to Z.
[S 860/2025 wef 31/12/2025]
(6) Where any qualifying current tax expense or qualifying deferred
tax expense for a financial year of a constituent entity (X1) of an MNE
group is to be allocated to another constituent entity (X2) of the MNE
group under paragraph (1), (2), (5) or (5A), and the qualifying current
tax expense or qualifying deferred tax expense is in respect of passive
income, the amount of qualifying current tax expense and qualifying
deferred tax expense that must be so allocated is subject to a cap
determined by the following formula:
15%  D
ð
Þ  E;
where —
(a) D is the relevant effective tax rate for X2 determined
without regard to any qualifying current tax expense or
qualifying deferred tax expense in respect of passive
income, that would otherwise have been allocated to X2
under paragraph (1), (2), (5) or (5A); and
[S 860/2025 wef 31/12/2025]
(b) E is the amount of the passive income,
and any amount of qualifying current tax expense or qualifying
deferred tax expense not allocated is a qualifying current tax expense
or qualifying deferred tax expense of X1.
[S 860/2025 wef 31/12/2025]
S 1062/2024
70
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

(7) In this regulation —
“applicable rate”, in relation to a blended CFC regime, means
the applicable tax rate mentioned in paragraph (c) of the
definition of “blended CFC regime”;
“blended CFC allocation key” has the meaning given by
regulation 44A;
[S 129/2025 wef 25/02/2025]
“blended CFC regime” means a controlled foreign company tax
regime —
(a) under which the income and losses of the controlled
foreign companies of the entity are aggregated for the
purposes of calculating the entity’s tax liability under
the regime;
(b) that does not take into account the income of the
entity, or the constituent entities of its MNE group,
arising in the jurisdiction where the entity is located,
other than the use of any loss to reduce a tax liability
under the regime; and
(c) that operates if the tax rate applicable to the
controlled
foreign
companies
is
less
than
a
minimum threshold, being a threshold below 15%;
“controlled foreign company” means the other entity in the
definition of “controlled foreign company tax regime”;
“controlled foreign company tax regime” means a set of tax
rules (other than MTT or a qualified IIR) under which an
entity with an ownership interest in another entity located in a
different jurisdiction is subject to current taxation on its share
of part or all of the income of the other entity, whether or not
any of that income is distributed to the entity;
“passive income” means —
(a) dividends or dividend equivalents;
(b) interest or interest equivalents;
(c) rent;
S 1062/2024
71
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

(d) royalties;
(e) annuities; or
(f) net gains from property of a type that produces
income described in paragraphs (a) to (e);
“relevant effective tax rate”, in relation to a constituent
entity (X2) of an MNE group, means —
(a) where X2 is not a special entity — the effective tax
rate (as determined under section 17) for the
constituent entities (not being special entities) of
that MNE group located in the same jurisdiction as
X2, including X2;
(b) where X2 is a stateless entity — its effective tax rate
(as determined under section 22);
(c) where X2 is a minority-owned constituent entity —
the effective tax rate (as determined under section 23)
for the constituent entities of that MNE group that are
minority‑owned constituent entities located in the
same jurisdiction as X2, including X2; and
(d) where X2 is an investment entity or insurance
investment
entity
—
the
effective
tax
rate
(as determined under section 24) for the constituent
entities of that MNE group that are investment
entities or insurance investment entities located in
the same jurisdiction as X2, including X2.
(8) For the purposes of this regulation, any amount of qualifying
current tax expense or qualifying deferred tax expense of a
constituent entity (Z1) of the MNE group that would have been
allocated under this regulation to a standalone JVor an entity of a JV
group (Z2) that is connected to an MNE group if Z2 were a constituent
entity of the MNE group, is to be allocated to Z2.
(9) For the purpose of paragraph (8), “relevant effective tax rate”
means the effective tax rate (as determined under section 25) for Z2
and any other entities of the JV group located in the same jurisdiction
as Z2.
S 1062/2024
72
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

(10) In the application under regulation 37(2) of this regulation to
the allocation of tax expenses from one entity (Z3) to another
entity (Z4) of the same JV group, “relevant effective tax rate” means
the effective tax rate (as determined under section 25) for Z4 and any
other entities of the JV group located in the same jurisdiction as Z4.
Blended CFC allocation key
44A.—(1) In regulation 44, “blended CFC allocation key”, in
relation to a constituent entity (X) for a controlled foreign company
(Y) of X, means the amount of Y’s income in the jurisdiction where it
is located that is attributable to X under the blended CFC regime in
question, multiplied by the difference between A and B, where —
(a) A is the applicable rate for the blended CFC regime; and
(b) B is —
(i) in a case where Y is a GloBE entity — the effective
tax rate for those GloBE entities (collectively called
Y1) that are located in the same jurisdiction as Y and
that belong to the same class of GloBE entities in
paragraph (8)(a) to (g) as Y, as determined by the
operation
of
any
of
the
laws
mentioned
in
paragraph (2);
(ii) in a case where Y is not a GloBE entity, and there is
one or more GloBE entities (each called Y2) that are
located in the same jurisdiction as Y — the effective
tax rate (as determined by the operation of any of the
laws mentioned in paragraph (2)) for the Y2 or Y2s
belonging
to
the
class
of
GloBE
entities
in
paragraph (8)(a) to (g) with the highest total
amount of income attributable to X under the
blended CFC regime (each called a relevant Y2); or
(iii) in any other case — the effective tax rate for all
entities located in the same jurisdiction as Y —
(A) in which X holds an ownership interest; and
(B) that are subject to taxation under the blended
CFC regime,
S 1062/2024
73
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

(iii) based on their total income and taxes for the financial
year concerned as reflected in their financial
statements.
(2) The laws mentioned in paragraph (1)(b)(i) and (ii) are —
(a) section 17 (or that section as applied by section 22, 23 or
25) or section 24, whichever is applicable, with the
modifications in paragraph (3); and
(b) any law
equivalent
to
the
applicable
provision in
sub‑paragraph (a), with the modifications in paragraph (3).
(3) The modifications mentioned in paragraph (2) are —
(a) any tax arising under the blended CFC regime is
disregarded; and
(b) where the blended CFC regime provides credit for any
qualified domestic minimum top-up tax payable in Y’s
jurisdiction on the same basis as covered taxes payable in
that jurisdiction, any qualified domestic minimum top-up
tax payable in that jurisdiction is included in the adjusted
covered taxes for those constituent entities.
(4) For the purpose of paragraph (1), where B is equal to or greater
than 15% or A, then the blended CFC allocation key is nil.
(5) For the purpose of paragraph (1)(b)(i) and (ii), if an election is
made to apply for the financial year in question the Transitional
CbCR Safe Harbour under regulation 69 or its equivalent under the
law of any other jurisdiction to Y (in the case of paragraph (1)(b)(i)) or
any relevant Y2 (in the case of paragraph (1)(b)(ii)), the reference to
the
effective
tax
rate
determined
in
accordance
with
paragraph (1)(b)(i) or (ii) is to the simplified effective tax rate
determined in accordance with regulation 72(2).
(6) For the purpose of paragraph (1)(b)(i) or (ii), if an election is
made to apply for the financial year in question the QDMTT Safe
Harbour under regulation 78 or its equivalent under the law of any
other jurisdiction to Y (in the case of paragraph (1)(b)(i)) or any
relevant Y2 (in the case of paragraph (1)(b)(ii)), the reference to the
S 1062/2024
74
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

effective tax rate determined in accordance with paragraph (1)(b)(i)
or (ii) is to an amount determined by the formula
DþE
ð
Þ
F
;
where —
(a) D is the sum of the adjusted covered taxes used to
determine the effective tax rate for Y1 (in the case of
paragraph (1)(b)(i)) or the relevant Y2 or Y2s (in the case of
paragraph (1)(b)(ii)) for the purposes of determining the
amount of qualified domestic minimum top-up tax
imposed by the law of that jurisdiction;
(b) E is the amount of qualified domestic minimum top-up tax
payable in that jurisdiction for that financial year that could
be included in the adjusted covered taxes for Y1 (in the case
of paragraph (1)(b)(i)) or the relevant Y2 or Y2s (in the case
of paragraph (1)(b)(ii)) under paragraph (3)(b); and
(c) F is the sum of the GloBE income or loss for that financial
year of Y1 (in the case of paragraph (1)(b)(i)) or the
relevant Y2 or Y2s (in the case of paragraph (1)(b)(ii)) for
the purposes of determining the amount of qualified
domestic minimum top-up tax imposed by the law of
that jurisdiction.
(7) For the purpose of paragraph (1)(b)(i) or (ii), and subject to
paragraphs (5) and (6), if an effective tax rate need not be determined
for Y (in the case of paragraph (1)(b)(i)) or all relevant Y2s (in the case
of paragraph (1)(b)(ii)) under any of the laws mentioned in
paragraph (2), the reference to the effective tax rate determined in
accordance with paragraph (1)(b)(i) or (ii) is to the simplified
effective tax rate determined in accordance with regulation 72(2), and
for this purpose the reference to the MNE group’s qualifying country-
by-country report in regulation 72(2)(b) is to its qualified financial
statements as defined in regulation 68.
(8) In paragraph (1)(b)(i) and (ii), GloBE entities are classified as
follows:
(a) constituent entities other than special entities;
(b) stateless entities;
(c) minority-owned constituent entities (not being investment
entities or insurance investment entities);
S 1062/2024
75
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

(d) members of a minority-owned subgroup (not being
investment entities or insurance investment entities);
(e) investment entities and insurance investment entities;
(f) standalone JVs;
(g) entities of a JV group.
(9) In this regulation —
“applicable rate”, “blended CFC regime” and “controlled
foreign
company”
have
the
meanings
given
by
regulation 44(7);
“GloBE entity” means a constituent entity of the same MNE
group as X or a joint venture or JV subsidiary that is
connected to the same MNE group as X.
[S 129/2025 wef 25/02/2025]
Cross-border allocation of current tax expenses under cross-
crediting regimes
44B.—(1) Where
the
qualifying
current
tax
expense
of
a
constituent entity of an MNE group in a jurisdiction in which a
cross-crediting regime applies —
(a) is to be allocated to another constituent entity of the MNE
group in another jurisdiction pursuant to regulation 44(1),
(4), (5) or (5A); or
(b) is to be treated as the qualifying current tax expense of a
permanent establishment of the firstmentioned constituent
entity in another jurisdiction pursuant to paragraph 1(4) of
the First Schedule to the Act,
the allocation and treatment must be in accordance with the cross-
crediting regime methodology.
(2) Where the cross-crediting regime that applies in the jurisdiction
allows only for cross-crediting within particular categories of
income, the cross-crediting regime methodology is to be applied to
individual categories of income to determine the allocation of
qualifying current tax expense within each category.
S 1062/2024
76
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

(3) A cross-crediting regime applies in a jurisdiction if, under the
laws of that jurisdiction, taxes paid with respect to one source of
income arising in another jurisdiction give rise to foreign tax credits
which can be used against another source of income arising in a
further jurisdiction.
(4) In this regulation, “cross-crediting regime methodology” means
the methodology described in the cross-crediting guidance set out in
Chapter 3.1 of the June 2024 Administrative Guidance, which applies
to this regulation with all necessary modifications.
[S 860/2025 wef 31/12/2025]
Cross-border allocation of deferred tax expenses
44C. Where any qualifying deferred tax expense of a constituent
entity of an MNE group in a jurisdiction —
(a) is to be allocated to another constituent entity of the MNE
group in another jurisdiction pursuant to regulation 44(1),
(4), (5) or (5A); or
(b) is to be treated as the qualifying deferred tax expense of a
permanent establishment of the firstmentioned constituent
entity in another jurisdiction pursuant to paragraph 1(4) of
the First Schedule to the Act,
the allocation and treatment must be in accordance with the
methodology
described
in
Chapter
4.2
of
the
June
2024
Administrative Guidance, and that methodology is to apply for this
purpose with the necessary modifications.
[S 860/2025 wef 31/12/2025]
Cross-border allocation elections
44D.—(1) The filing entity of an MNE group may make an election
in a GloBE information return (whether filed in Singapore or in
another jurisdiction) in accordance with the GloBE rules that the
treatment in this regulation applies to all the constituent entities of the
MNE group located in a jurisdiction for a financial year.
(2) Where an election under paragraph (1) is effective for a
financial year, any qualifying deferred tax expense which must
otherwise be allocated from any constituent entity (W) located in the
S 1062/2024
77
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

jurisdiction
to
another
constituent
entity
(X)
pursuant
to
regulation 44(1), (4), (5) or (5A) must be excluded from the
qualifying deferred tax expense of W and must not be allocated to X.
(3) Where an election is effective under paragraph (1) for a
financial year, any qualifying deferred tax expense of any constituent
entity (Y) located in the jurisdiction which must otherwise be treated
as the qualifying deferred tax expense of Y’s permanent establishment
(Z) pursuant to paragraph 1(4) of the First Schedule to the Act, must
not be so treated.
(4) An election under paragraph (1) must not be revoked for the
financial year for which it is made or for any of the subsequent 4
financial years, and any such revocation has no effect.
(5) If an election under paragraph (1) is revoked for a financial year,
another election under that paragraph must not be made (whether in
Singapore or in another jurisdiction) in respect of the constituent
entities located in that jurisdiction for that financial year or any of the
subsequent 4 financial years, and any such election has no effect.
[S 860/2025 wef 31/12/2025]
Division 3 — Deferred taxes and other adjustments
Divergence between GloBE and accounting values
44E.—(1) This regulation applies where, because of the operation
of any provision of the Act or these Regulations, the FANIL or GloBE
income or loss of a constituent entity relating to an asset or liability is
to be calculated based on a value (called the GloBE carrying value)
which differs from the value of the asset or liability as recorded in the
financial statements used to determine the FANIL or GloBE income
or loss (called the accounting carrying value).
(2) Unless otherwise expressly provided in the Act or these
Regulations, for the purposes of determining the adjusted covered
taxes of the constituent entity —
(a) the GloBE carrying value is to be updated in accordance
with the financial accounting standard used in determining
the FANIL of the constituent entity; and
S 1062/2024
78
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

(b) the deferred tax asset or deferred tax liability relating to
that asset or liability is to be determined by reference to the
GloBE carrying value (as updated, if applicable), and the
qualifying
deferred
tax
expense
is
to
be
adjusted
accordingly.
(3) No adjustment is to be made under paragraph (2)(a) to the
GloBE carrying value of an asset for any impairment made to it.
(4) Paragraph (3) does not apply in a case where the accounting
carrying value of an asset after adjusting for impairment (called the
post-adjustment accounting value) is less than its GloBE carrying
value, and in such a case its GloBE carrying value is to be updated
under paragraph (2)(a) to the post-adjustment accounting value for
the purposes of paragraph (2).
(5) To
avoid
doubt,
and
without
limiting
paragraph
(2),
paragraph (2) applies to any instance of divergence between the
GloBE carrying value and the accounting carrying value for an asset
or liability that results from the operation of regulation 21(3), 30(2),
31(2), 36(2) or 61(2)(a), (3) or (8).
[S 860/2025 wef 31/12/2025]
Adjustments to qualifying deferred tax expense
45.—(1) The following adjustments must be made to the qualifying
deferred tax expense of a constituent entity of an MNE group for any
financial year, but only after making any adjustments under
regulation 44E:
(a) any amount of that expense in respect of an item excluded
from the computation of the GloBE income or loss for that
financial year of the constituent entity is excluded;
(b) any amount of that expense that reflects a disallowed
accrual or an unclaimed accrual for that financial year is
excluded;
(c) the impact in the financial year of a valuation adjustment or
accounting recognition adjustment with respect to a
deferred tax asset is excluded;
S 1062/2024
79
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

(d) any amount of that expense in the financial year arising
from a re‑measurement with respect to a change in the rate
of tax is excluded;
(e) any amount of that expense in the financial year that
reflects the generation or use of tax credits is excluded;
(f) any amount of unclaimed accrual for a previous financial
year (that was excluded under sub‑paragraph (b) for that
previous financial year) that is paid in the financial year is
added;
[S 129/2025 wef 25/02/2025]
(g) any amount not reflected in a deferred tax asset that is
attributable to a loss for the financial year, being an amount
not so reflected only as a result of the recognition criteria
not being met, is subtracted;
(h) any amount of that expense in respect of an amount of
qualifying
foreign
tax
credit
as
determined
under
paragraph (2) for the financial year is included, but only
to the extent that the qualifying foreign tax credit is used to
offset a tax on income included in the computation of
GloBE income or loss;
[S 860/2025 wef 31/12/2025]
(i) any recaptured deferred tax liability under regulation 46
that is paid in the financial year is added;
(j) any amount of deferred tax expense that relates to a gain or
loss in respect of the disposal of local tangible assets
(as defined in regulation 32(6)) in the financial year for
which an election in regulation 32(1) is made for the
constituent entity is excluded;
[S 860/2025 wef 31/12/2025]
(k) any amount of a special foreign tax asset for that financial
year is subtracted, and any amount of a special foreign tax
asset used for that financial year is added, but in each case
only to the extent that the special foreign tax asset is used
to offset a tax on income included in the computation of
GloBE income or loss.
[S 860/2025 wef 31/12/2025]
S 1062/2024
80
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

(2) The amount of a qualifying foreign tax credit is the lower of —
(a) the qualifying foreign tax credit; and
(b) the amount of any domestic loss used to offset any relevant
foreign income that would allow the constituent entity to
offset the qualifying foreign tax credit against tax on
domestic profits, multiplied by the applicable tax rate in
the jurisdiction where the constituent entity is located.
[S 860/2025 wef 31/12/2025]
(3) Where a constituent entity of an MNE group has a deferred tax
asset calculated on the basis of a tax rate of less than 15% that is
attributable to a loss that would have been taken into account in
determining its GloBE income or loss for a financial year, the amount
of the deferred tax asset may be adjusted to the amount it would be
had the tax rate been 15%, and the amount of the adjustment is
subtracted from the qualifying deferred tax expense of that
constituent entity for that financial year.
(4) Where a deferred tax expense of a constituent entity of an MNE
group for a financial year relates to covered taxes where the tax rate is
greater than 15%, the amount of that deferred tax expense must be
adjusted to the amount it would be had the tax rate been 15%.
(4A) The guidance in Chapter 1 of the June 2024 Administrative
Guidance applies for the purpose of determining whether an amount
of qualifying deferred tax expense reflects an unclaimed accrual, and
that guidance is to apply with the necessary modifications for that
purpose (for example, a reference to an Unclaimed Accrual Five-Year
Election is to an election mentioned in regulation 46A(1)(b)).
[S 860/2025 wef 31/12/2025]
(5) In this regulation —
“disallowed accrual”, in relation to a financial year, means —
(a) any movement in deferred tax expense which would
be (if not for regulation 11) reflected in the FANIL of
a constituent entity of an MNE group for the financial
year which relates to an uncertain tax position; or
(b) any movement in deferred tax expense which would
be (if not for regulation 11) reflected in the FANIL of
S 1062/2024
81
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

a constituent entity of an MNE group for the financial
year which relates to distributions from another
constituent entity of the MNE group;
“qualifying foreign tax credit”, in relation to a constituent entity
of an MNE group, means a tax credit in the jurisdiction in
which that constituent entity is located for foreign income tax
paid by that constituent entity or another constituent entity,
where that jurisdiction —
(a) requires domestic losses to be offset against relevant
foreign income before a tax credit can be applied
against tax on foreign income; and
(b) permits a foreign tax credit to be offset against tax on
domestic profits to the extent that domestic losses
have been offset against relevant foreign income for a
previous financial year;
[S 860/2025 wef 31/12/2025]
“relevant foreign income”, in relation to a constituent entity of
an MNE group, means —
(a) income of a controlled foreign company of the
constituent entity on which the constituent entity is
taxed as a result of a controlled foreign company tax
regime (as defined in regulation 44(7));
(b) income of a hybrid entity in which the constituent
entity holds an ownership interest, where the hybrid
entity is located in a different jurisdiction from the
constituent entity;
(c) income of a reverse hybrid entity in which the
constituent entity holds an ownership interest, where
the reverse hybrid entity is located in a different
jurisdiction from the constituent entity; or
(d) income
of
a
permanent
establishment
of
the
constituent
entity,
where
the
permanent
establishment is located in a different jurisdiction
from the constituent entity;
[S 860/2025 wef 31/12/2025]
S 1062/2024
82
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

“special foreign tax asset”, in relation to a constituent entity of
an MNE group, means the amount of domestic loss used by
the constituent entity to offset (in whole or in part) relevant
foreign income, multiplied by the lower of 15% and the
applicable tax rate in the jurisdiction in which that constituent
entity is located for the financial year in which the domestic
loss was used, where that jurisdiction —
(a) requires the domestic loss to be offset against
relevant foreign income before a tax credit can be
applied against tax on foreign income;
(b) limits the extent to which foreign tax credits can be
applied against tax for a financial year; and
(c) permits a re-characterisation of domestic income as
foreign income to allow foreign tax credits to be used
to a greater extent where the domestic loss has been
used to offset (in whole or in part) relevant foreign
income for a previous financial year;
[S 860/2025 wef 31/12/2025]
“unclaimed accrual”, in relation to a constituent entity of an
MNE group for a financial year, means an increase in a
deferred tax liability in respect of which the filing entity of
that MNE group has elected under regulation 46A not to
include in the qualifying deferred tax expense of that
constituent entity for that financial year.
[S 860/2025 wef 31/12/2025]
(6) Paragraph (1)(a) to (e) does not apply in relation to deferred tax
assets or liabilities arising before the transition year.
(7) In making the adjustments in paragraph (1), no item may be
taken into account more than once.
[S 129/2025 wef 25/02/2025]
Recaptured deferred tax liabilities
46.—(1) A constituent entity of an MNE group has a recaptured
deferred tax liability if it has a deferred tax liability, other than an
excluded liability, taken into account in its qualifying deferred tax
S 1062/2024
83
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

expense for a financial year (called the initial year) that is not
reversed by the last day of the fifth financial year after the initial year.
(2) Where a constituent entity of an MNE group has a recaptured
deferred tax liability —
(a) the amount included in its qualifying deferred tax expense
for the initial year in relation to that recaptured deferred tax
liability must be excluded for that financial year; and
(b) the following must be recalculated for the initial year:
(i) the effective tax rate (as determined under section 17,
including that section as applied by section 22, 23 or
25, or section 24, as the case may be) for the
constituent entity and the other constituent entities of
the MNE group located in the same jurisdiction;
(ii) the top-up amounts that those constituent entities
would have,
(b) and section 21(4) (or that section as applied by section 22,
23, 24 or 25, as the case may be) applies accordingly.
(3) In paragraph (1), “excluded liability” means a tax expense
attributable to changes in deferred tax liabilities in respect of —
(a) cost recovery allowances on tangible assets;
(b) the cost of a licence or similar arrangement from the
government for the use of immovable property or
exploitation of natural resources that entails significant
investment in tangible assets;
(c) research and development expenses;
(d) de-commissioning and remediation expenses;
(e) fair value accounting on unrealised net gains;
(f) foreign currency exchange net gains;
(g) insurance
reserves
and
insurance
policy
deferred
acquisition costs;
S 1062/2024
84
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

(h) gains from the sale of tangible property located in the same
jurisdiction as the constituent entity that are reinvested in
tangible property located in the same jurisdiction; or
(i) additional amounts accrued as a result of accounting
principle changes with respect to anything falling within
sub‑paragraphs (a) to (h).
(4) The guidance in Chapter 1 of the June 2024 Administrative
Guidance applies for the purpose of determining whether a
constituent entity of an MNE group has a deferred tax liability
(other than an excluded liability) taken into account in its qualifying
deferred tax expense for the initial year that is not reversed by the last
day of the fifth financial year after the initial year, and that guidance is
to apply with the necessary modifications for that purpose (for
example, a reference to an Unclaimed Accrual Five-Year Election is
to an election mentioned in regulation 46A(1)(b)).
[S 860/2025 wef 31/12/2025]
Unclaimed accrual elections
46A.—(1) The filing entity of an MNE group may, for any increase
in a deferred tax liability that would be (if not for regulation 11)
reflected in the FANIL of a constituent entity of an MNE group for a
financial year, make an election in a GloBE information return
(whether filed in Singapore or in another jurisdiction) in accordance
with the GloBE rules (and in particular the guidance in Chapter 1 of
the June 2024 Administrative Guidance) to either —
(a) not include the increase in the qualifying deferred tax
expense of that constituent entity for that financial year if
the increase is not expected to be reversed before the end of
the fifth financial year after that financial year; or
(b) not include the increase in the qualifying deferred tax
expense of that constituent entity for that financial year if
the deferred tax liability is tracked on the basis of a general
ledger account, or is tracked within an aggregate deferred
tax liability category to which the deferred tax liability
belongs, whether or not the increase is expected to be
reversed before the end of the fifth financial year after that
financial year.
S 1062/2024
85
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

(2) Where an election mentioned in paragraph (1)(b) (called in this
regulation a paragraph (1)(b) election) is made for an increase in a
deferred tax liability (DTL1), a paragraph (1)(b) election (called in
this regulation a follow-up paragraph (1)(b) election) must be made
for that financial year and at least the next 4 financial years for any
increase in DTL1 or another deferred tax liability of that constituent
entity that is tracked on the basis of the same general ledger account
or within the same aggregate deferred tax category, and such election
is treated as having been made even if not made.
(3) Paragraph (2) does not apply in a case where the firstmentioned
paragraph
(1)(b)
election
in
that
paragraph
is
a
follow-up
paragraph (1)(b) election.
(4) Where a follow-up paragraph (1)(b) election is not made in
respect of that constituent entity for any financial year (FYX) after the
last financial year mentioned in paragraph (2) (FY5), FYX being the
first financial year after FY5 that such election is not made in respect
of that constituent entity, then a paragraph (1)(b) election must not be
made in respect of that constituent entity for FYX and any of the next
4 financial years after FYX, and any such election has no effect.
(5) In this regulation —
“aggregate deferred tax liability category” means a category of
deferred tax liabilities determined in relation to 2 or more
general ledger accounts, consistent with the chart of accounts
used for the purposes of preparing the financial statements of
an entity, where those general ledger accounts fall under the
same balance sheet account or sub‑balance sheet account;
“general ledger account” means a single financial account in the
chart of accounts used for the purposes of preparing the
financial statements of an entity.
[S 860/2025 wef 31/12/2025]
GloBE loss election
47.—(1) The filing entity of an MNE group may elect in a GloBE
information return (whether filed in Singapore or in another
jurisdiction) in accordance with the GloBE rules that the treatment
S 1062/2024
86
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

in this regulation applies to all the constituent entities of the MNE
group located in a jurisdiction.
(2) An election under paragraph (1) —
(a) must be made for the transition year of any constituent
entity located in that jurisdiction; and
(b) cannot be made for a jurisdiction that has an eligible
distribution tax system (as defined in paragraph 1(7) of the
First Schedule to the Act).
(3) Where an election is effective for a financial year —
(a) none of the constituent entities located in the jurisdiction
for which the election is made is treated as having any
qualifying deferred tax expense for that financial year; and
(b) if the sum of the GloBE income or loss for that financial
year of those constituent entities is nil or less, that amount
multiplied by 15% is the “special loss deferred tax asset” of
those
constituent
entities
for
the
purposes
of
this
regulation.
(4) Where an election is effective for a financial year and —
(a) the sum of the GloBE income or loss for that financial year
of the constituent entities located in a jurisdiction for which
the election is made is a positive amount; and
(b) those constituent entities have any special loss deferred tax
asset from a previous financial year that has not been used,
an amount of that special loss deferred tax asset must be used to
increase the qualifying current tax expense of the constituent entities
with a positive amount of GloBE income or loss for that financial
year.
(5) The amount of the special loss deferred tax asset that is to be
used in paragraph (4) is the lower of —
(a) the amount of the special loss deferred tax asset; and
(b) the sum of the GloBE income or loss for that financial year
of those constituent entities multiplied by 15%,
S 1062/2024
87
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

and any amount of the special loss deferred tax asset remaining
unused remains available for use in a subsequent financial year.
(6) Any special loss deferred tax asset used in paragraph (4) must be
allocated between the constituent entities with a positive amount of
GloBE income or loss for the financial year in proportion to the
amounts of their GloBE income or loss.
(7) If an election under paragraph (1) is revoked for the constituent
entities located in a jurisdiction, any special loss deferred tax asset of
those constituent entities remaining unused on the first day of the first
financial year for which the election is revoked is reduced to nil.
(8) If the ultimate parent entity of the MNE group is a flow-through
entity that is located in that jurisdiction, paragraphs (3) to (7) apply in
relation to the constituent entities of the MNE group that are located
in that jurisdiction, as if the ultimate parent entity were —
(a) the only constituent entity of a separate MNE group that is
located in the jurisdiction; and
(b) not a constituent entity of the MNE group that is located in
that jurisdiction.
Deemed distribution tax election
48.—(1) Where a jurisdiction has an eligible distribution tax
system, the filing entity of an MNE group may make an election in
a GloBE information return (whether filed in Singapore or in another
jurisdiction) in accordance with the GloBE rules that the treatment in
this regulation applies to the constituent entities of the MNE group
located in that jurisdiction for a financial year.
(2) Where an election is effective for a financial year —
(a) the constituent entities located in the jurisdiction for which
the election is made have a deemed distribution tax amount
for that financial year, being the lower of —
(i) an amount that, when added to A in section 17(1) for
those constituent entities, would result in the
effective tax rate (as determined under section 17,
including that section as applied by section 22, 23 or
25, or section 24, as the case may be) for those
S 1062/2024
88
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

constituent entities for that financial year being 15%;
and
(ii) the amount of tax that would have been due in that
jurisdiction
if
those
constituent
entities
had
distributed all of their profits for that financial year;
(b) the combined adjusted covered taxes of those constituent
entities for that financial year are increased by the deemed
distribution tax amount; and
(c) a recapture amount equal to that deemed distribution tax
amount is recognised for those constituent entities in the
next financial year.
(3) The recapture amount of the constituent entities for a financial
year is reduced (but not below nil) by —
(a) first, the amount of any tax paid in that financial year on
any actual or deemed distribution of profits by those
constituent entities;
(b) then, if those constituent entities have a total negative
amount of GloBE income or loss for that financial year, the
amount of that total loss (expressed as a positive number)
multiplied by 15%; and
(c) then, if any amount computed in sub‑paragraph (b) for
those constituent entities for a previous financial year was
not fully deducted against the recapture amount of those
constituent entities for any previous financial year, the
remainder of that amount,
on the basis that a recapture amount first recognised in an earlier
financial year is reduced before a recapture amount first recognised in
a later financial year;
(4) If any recapture amount of the constituent entities of an MNE
group located in a jurisdiction remains at the end of the
fourth financial year after the financial year when the recapture
amount was first recognised, then, for the financial year when the
recapture amount was first recognised —
S 1062/2024
89
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

(a) that recapture amount is deducted from the combined
adjusted covered taxes of those constituent entities;
(b) then, the effective tax rate (as determined under section 17,
including that section as applied by section 22, 23 or 25, or
section 24, as the case may be) for those constituent entities
is recalculated; and
(c) then, the top-up amounts that those constituent entities
would have are recalculated,
and section 21(4) (or that section as applied by section 22, 23, 24 or
25, as the case may be) applies accordingly.
(5) Any amount of tax of a constituent entity that is used in a
financial year to reduce a recapture amount in paragraph (3)(a) must
be excluded from the adjusted covered taxes of that constituent entity
for that financial year.
(6) Where, in a financial year, a constituent entity —
(a) leaves the MNE group;
(b) transfers all, or substantially all, of its assets to an entity
which is not a constituent entity of the MNE group or to an
individual;
(c) transfers all, or substantially all, of its assets to a
constituent entity located in another jurisdiction; and
(d) the constituent entities located in that jurisdiction had, in
previous financial years, one or more recapture amounts
(each called a recapture year),
then, for each recapture year —
(e) the recapture amount for that year (after any reduction in
paragraph (3)(a)) must be deducted from the combined
adjusted covered taxes of those constituent entities for that
year;
(f) then, the effective tax rate (as determined under section 17,
including that section as applied by section 22, 23 or 25, or
section 24, as the case may be) for those constituent entities
must be recalculated; and
S 1062/2024
90
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

(g) then, the top-up amounts that those constituent entities
would have must be recalculated, and then adjusted by the
relevant ratio for each constituent entity,
and section 21(4) (or that section as applied by section 22, 23, 24 or
25, as the case may be) applies accordingly.
(7) In paragraph (6), the relevant ratio for a financial year is the
ratio of the GloBE income or loss for the financial year of the
constituent entity leaving the MNE group over the sum of the GloBE
income or loss for the financial year of the constituent entities of the
MNE group, and —
(a) where the resulting ratio is less than nil, the relevant ratio is
nil; and
(b) where the resulting ratio is more than 1, the relevant ratio
is 1.
(8) In this regulation, “eligible distribution tax system” has the
meaning given by paragraph 1(7) of the First Schedule to the Act.
(9) This regulation does not apply for the purpose of Part 3 of the
Act.
Division 4 — Modifications for DTT purposes
Modifications in relation to Part 3 of Act
49.—(1) Despite the regulations in this Part, for the purpose of
Part 3 of the Act —
(a) where a constituent entity located in Singapore is a
permanent establishment, any qualifying current tax
expense or qualifying deferred tax expense of its main
entity located outside Singapore in respect of the income of
that constituent entity must not be allocated to that
constituent entity;
(b) where a constituent entity located in Singapore is a
controlled foreign company under a controlled foreign
company tax regime, any qualifying current tax expense or
qualifying deferred tax expense arising under that regime
must not be allocated to that constituent entity;
S 1062/2024
91
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

(c) where a constituent entity located in Singapore (X) makes a
distribution (including any deemed distribution in respect
of undistributed earnings or capital) to another constituent
entity located outside Singapore (Y), any qualifying current
tax expense or qualifying deferred tax expense of Y in
respect of that distribution (other than withholding tax
imposed by the ITA in respect of that distribution) must not
be allocated to X;
[S 860/2025 wef 31/12/2025]
(d) where a constituent entity located in Singapore (X) is a
hybrid
entity
with
respect
to
any
of
its
income,
expenditure, profit or loss attributable to an ownership
interest in X held by another constituent entity of the MNE
group located outside Singapore (Y), and Y is subject to
taxation on the income of X, any qualifying current tax
expense or qualifying deferred tax expense of Y in respect
of the income of X (other than that recorded in the financial
accounts of Y and which arose from tax imposed by the
ITA in respect of that income) must not be allocated to X;
[S 860/2025 wef 31/12/2025]
(e) where —
(i) a constituent entity located in Singapore (X) is a
reverse hybrid entity with respect to any of its
income, expenditure, profit or loss attributable to
another constituent entity of the MNE group located
outside Singapore that is its reference entity (Y1);
and
(ii) Y1 or another constituent entity of the MNE group
located outside Singapore that holds an indirect
ownership interest in X through Y1 (Y2) is subject to
taxation on the income of X,
(e) any qualifying current tax expense or qualifying deferred
tax expense of Y1 or Y2 in respect of the income of X (other
than that recorded in the financial accounts of Y1 or Y2 and
which arose from tax imposed by the ITA in respect of that
income) must not be allocated to X; and
[S 860/2025 wef 31/12/2025]
S 1062/2024
92
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

(f) where —
(i) a constituent entity is a section 29(b) entity (X) with
respect to any of its income, expenditure, profit or
loss attributable to another constituent entity of the
MNE group located outside Singapore that is its
reference entity (Y1); and
(ii) Y1 or another constituent entity of the MNE group
located outside Singapore that holds an indirect
ownership interest in X through Y1 (Y2) is subject to
taxation on the income of X,
(f) any qualifying current tax expense or qualifying deferred
tax expense of Y1 or Y2 in respect of the income of X (other
than that recorded in the financial accounts of Y1 or Y2 and
which arose from tax imposed by the ITA in respect of that
income) must not be allocated to X.
[S 860/2025 wef 31/12/2025]
(2) In this regulation —
“controlled foreign company” means the other entity in the
definition of “controlled foreign company tax regime”;
“controlled foreign company tax regime” means a set of tax
rules (other than MTT or a qualified IIR) under which an
entity with an ownership interest in another entity located in a
different jurisdiction is subject to current taxation on its share
of part or all of the income of the other entity, whether or not
any of that income is distributed to the entity.
PART 6
ADJUSTMENTS TO SUBSTANCE-BASED
INCOME EXCLUSION
Definitions for this Part
50. In this Part —
“ancillary
international
shipping
activities”,
“international
shipping” and “international shipping activities” have the
meanings given by regulation 25(7);
S 1062/2024
93
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

“ancillary international shipping income” has the meaning given
by regulation 25(4);
“international shipping income” has the meaning given by
regulation 25(3).
Application of this Part
51. This Part applies to a standalone JV or an entity of a JV group
with the following modifications:
(a) references to an MNE group are to the standalone JVor the
JV group of which the entity is a part;
(b) references to the ultimate parent entity of an MNE group
are to the standalone JV or the joint venture of the JV
group;
(c) references to a constituent entity are to the standalone JVor
the entity.
Exclusion from eligible payroll costs
52.—(1) For the purposes of section 18, the eligible payroll costs of
a constituent entity of an MNE group for a financial year do not
include —
(a) the full amount of payroll costs of the constituent entity for
that financial year that is directly attributable to its
international shipping income for that financial year;
(b) the full amount of payroll costs of the constituent entity for
that financial year that is directly attributable to its
ancillary international shipping income that is excluded
from
its
FANIL
for
that
financial
year
under
regulation 25(1)(a) or (c);
[S 860/2025 wef 31/12/2025]
(c) the
proportion
of
the
payroll
costs
described
in
paragraph (2) of the constituent entity for that financial
year that is only indirectly attributable to its international
shipping income for that financial year; and
(d) the
proportion
of
the
payroll
costs
described
in
paragraph (3) of the constituent entity for that financial
S 1062/2024
94
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

year that is only indirectly attributable to its ancillary
international shipping income that is excluded from its
FANIL for that financial year under regulation 25(1)(a)
or (c).
[S 860/2025 wef 31/12/2025]
(2) In paragraph (1)(c), the proportion of the payroll costs is that
which the revenue of the constituent entity from international
shipping activities for that financial year bears to its total revenue
for that financial year.
(3) In paragraph (1)(d), the proportion of the payroll costs is that
which the amount computed by the following formula bears to the
total revenue of the constituent entity for that financial year:
A  B
C ;
where —
(a) A is the revenue of the constituent entity from ancillary
international shipping activities for that financial year;
(b) B is the amount of the ancillary international shipping
income of the constituent entity that is excluded from its
FANIL for that financial year under regulation 25(1)(a) or
(c); and
[S 860/2025 wef 31/12/2025]
(c) C is the total amount of the ancillary international shipping
income of the constituent entity for that financial year.
Adjustment to substance-based income exclusion due to assets
being used to derive only international shipping income, etc.
53.—(1) For the purposes of section 18, the carrying value of the
eligible tangible assets of a constituent entity of an MNE group for a
financial year does not include —
(a) the carrying value for the financial year of any assets of the
constituent entity that are used during that financial year to
derive only international shipping income;
(b) the proportion of the carrying value for the financial year
of any assets of the constituent entity that are used during
S 1062/2024
95
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

that financial year to derive only ancillary international
shipping income, equal to the proportion that its ancillary
international shipping income excluded from its FANIL for
that financial year under regulation 25(1)(a) or (c) bears to
its ancillary international shipping income;
[S 860/2025 wef 31/12/2025]
(c) the proportion described in paragraph (2) of the carrying
value for the financial year of any assets of the constituent
entity
(other
than
any
assets
mentioned
in
sub‑paragraph (a) or (b)) that is attributable to its
international shipping income for that financial year; and
(d) the proportion described in paragraph (3) of the carrying
value for the financial year of any assets of the constituent
entity
(other
than
any
assets
mentioned
in
sub‑paragraph (a) or (b)) that is attributable to its
ancillary international shipping income excluded from its
FANIL for that financial year under regulation 25(1)(a)
or (c).
[S 860/2025 wef 31/12/2025]
(2) In paragraph (1)(c), the proportion of the carrying value of the
assets is that which the revenue of the constituent entity from
international shipping activities for that financial year bears to its
total revenue for that financial year.
(3) In paragraph (1)(d), the proportion of the carrying value of the
assets is that which the amount computed by the following formula
bears to the total revenue of the constituent entity for that financial
year:
A  B
C ;
where —
(a) A is the revenue of the constituent entity from ancillary
international shipping activities for that financial year;
(b) B is the amount of the ancillary international shipping
income of the constituent entity that is excluded from its
S 1062/2024
96
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

FANIL for that financial year under regulation 25(1)(a) or
(c); and
[S 860/2025 wef 31/12/2025]
(c) C is the total amount of the ancillary international shipping
income of the constituent entity for that financial year.
Adjustment to substance-based income exclusion due to
eligible employees performing activities in and outside
constituent entity’s jurisdiction
54. If the percentage of the time spent (X%) by an eligible employee
of a constituent entity of an MNE group in performing activities for
the MNE group in the jurisdiction where the constituent entity is
located for the financial year, is 50% or less of the total time spent by
him or her in performing activities for the MNE group, then, for
determining the payroll carve-out amount of a constituent entity for
that financial year, the eligible payroll costs of the constituent entity
for that financial year for that eligible employee is the product of —
(a) the eligible payroll costs of the constituent entity for that
financial year for that eligible employee as adjusted (if
applicable) in accordance with section 18(5) and (6) and
regulation 57; and
[S 129/2025 wef 25/02/2025]
(b) X%.
[S 129/2025 wef 25/02/2025]
Adjustment to substance-based income exclusion due to
eligible tangible assets being located in and outside constituent
entity’s jurisdiction
55. If the percentage of the duration (Y%) within a financial year in
which an eligible tangible asset of a constituent entity of an MNE
group is located in the same jurisdiction as the constituent entity is
50% or less of the total duration of the financial year, then, for
determining the tangible asset carve‑out amount of a constituent
entity for that financial year, the carrying value of the asset for that
financial year is the product of —
S 1062/2024
97
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

(a) the carrying value of the asset adjusted (if applicable) in
accordance with section 18(5) and (6) and regulation 57;
and
[S 129/2025 wef 25/02/2025]
(b) Y%.
[S 129/2025 wef 25/02/2025]
Inclusion of certain properties as eligible tangible assets
56.—(1) In paragraph (e) of the definition of “eligible tangible
asset” in section 18(4), a property held by a constituent entity of an
MNE group as a lessor under a lease is an eligible tangible asset of the
lessor (but not the lessee) where the lessee of the property is another
constituent entity of the MNE group located in the same jurisdiction
as the lessor.
(2) In a case mentioned in paragraph (1), the lessor’s carrying value
of the property for the financial year must be adjusted to take into
account any elimination adjustments attributable to inter‑company
leases in respect of the property.
[S 129/2025 wef 25/02/2025]
(3) Subject to paragraph (1), in paragraph (e) of the definition of
“eligible tangible asset” in section 18(4), a property held by a
constituent entity of an MNE group as a lessor under an operating
lease is an eligible tangible asset of the lessor if the property is located
in the same jurisdiction as the lessor.
(4) In a case mentioned in paragraph (3), the lessor’s carrying value
of the property for the financial year is —
(a) if the property is not a short-term rental property and the
lessee is another constituent entity of the MNE group —
the excess (if any) of the lessor’s carrying value of the
property for the financial year over the lessee’s carrying
value of the property for that financial year;
(b) if the property is not a short-term rental property and the
lessee is not a constituent entity of the MNE group — the
excess (if any) of the lessor’s carrying value of the property
for the financial year over the average amount for the
financial year of the undiscounted remaining amount of
S 1062/2024
98
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

payments due under the lease, including any renewal or
extension that would be taken into account in determining
the value of the right to use the property under the financial
accounting standard used to determine the FANIL of the
lessor; or
(c) if the property is a short-term rental property — the lessor’s
carrying value of the property for the financial year.
[S 129/2025 wef 25/02/2025]
(5) In paragraph (4)(b), the average amount for a financial year of
the undiscounted remaining amount of payment due under a lease is
the average of —
(a) the undiscounted remaining amount of payments due
under the lease at the start of the financial year; and
(b) the undiscounted remaining amount of payments due
under the lease at the end of the financial year.
(6) If a part of an asset comprising property is held by a constituent
entity of an MNE group for lease, and another part of that property is
retained for use by the constituent entity —
(a) the different parts of the property are treated as separate
assets for the purposes of this regulation; and
(b) the carrying value of the asset is to be allocated between
the separate parts on a just and reasonable basis.
(7) In this regulation —
“operating lease” means a lease of a property that does not
transfer substantially the obsolescence, risks and rewards
incidental to ownership of the property to the lessee;
“short-term rental property” means a property that is leased
regularly to different lessees during a financial year and the
average lease period, including any renewals and extensions,
with respect to each lessee is 30 days or less.
S 1062/2024
99
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

Eligible payroll costs and eligible tangible assets of permanent
establishment
57.—(1) Subject to section 18(7) and paragraphs (2) and (3), the
following adjustments are to be made to the eligible payroll costs for
a financial year, and the eligible tangible assets, of a permanent
establishment for the purposes of section 18(6):
(a) treat any eligible payroll costs and eligible tangible assets
that are taken into account in determining the FANIL of the
permanent
establishment
in
paragraph
6(6)
of
the
First Schedule to the Act, as those of the permanent
establishment;
(b) exclude any eligible payroll costs and eligible tangible
assets that are not taken into account in determining the
FANIL of the permanent establishment in paragraph 6(6)
of the First Schedule to the Act;
(c) treat any eligible payroll costs and eligible tangible assets
that are taken into account in determining the FANIL of the
permanent
establishment
in
paragraph
6(7)
of
the
First Schedule to the Act, as nil.
(2) Where a proportion of the FANIL for a financial year of a
constituent entity of an MNE group that is —
(a) a permanent establishment (X) of a flow‑through entity (D)
that is the ultimate parent entity of the MNE group; or
(b) a permanent establishment (also X) of a flow‑through
entity (E) through which E wholly or partly carries out its
business, where —
(i) E is treated as fiscally transparent in the jurisdiction
where D is located; and
(ii) the ownership interests in E are held by D directly or
through one or more flow‑through entities (each of
which is treated as fiscally transparent in the
jurisdiction where D is located),
is excluded from X’s FANIL under paragraph 6(12)(d) of the
First Schedule to the Act, that same proportion of X’s eligible
S 1062/2024
100
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

payroll costs or carrying value of X’s eligible tangible assets (as the
case may be) for that financial year is not treated as X’s eligible
payroll costs or carrying value of X’s eligible tangible assets, as the
case may be.
(3) For the purposes of section 18(2) and (3), where —
(a) a proportion of the FANIL for a financial year of a
flow‑through entity (F) (being the ultimate parent entity of
the
MNE
group)
is
allocated
to
a
permanent
establishment (Y) of F under paragraph 6(12)(e) of the
First Schedule to the Act; and
(b) the eligible employees or eligible tangible assets of F are
located in the same jurisdiction as Y,
the same proportion of F’s eligible payroll costs or carrying value of
F’s eligible tangible assets (as the case may be) for that financial year
is also allocated to Y.
PART 7
MNE GROUP REORGANISATIONS AND
TRANSFER OR ACQUISITION OF ASSETS
AND LIABILITIES
Purpose and application of this Part
58.—(1) This Part sets out the adjustments that must be made —
(a) for the purpose of determining the GloBE income or loss of
a constituent entity of an MNE group for a financial year;
(b) for the purpose of arriving at the adjusted covered taxes of
a constituent entity of an MNE group for a financial year;
and
(c) to the substance-based income exclusion for a constituent
entity of an MNE group for a financial year, for the purpose
of arriving at its top-up amount for that financial year,
where the constituent entity —
(d) joins or leaves the MNE group; or
S 1062/2024
101
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

(e) transfers or acquires any asset or liability.
(2) This Part applies to a standalone JV or an entity of a JV group
with the following modifications:
(a) references to an MNE group are to the standalone JVor the
JV group of which the entity is or was a part;
(b) references to the ultimate parent entity of an MNE group
are to the standalone JV or the joint venture of the JV
group;
(c) references to a constituent entity are to the standalone JVor
the entity.
Constituent entity joining or leaving MNE group
59.—(1) Where, in a financial year, an entity becomes a constituent
entity of an MNE group or leaves an MNE group, then —
(a) subject to sub‑paragraph (c), the entity is to be treated as a
constituent entity of that MNE group for the whole of that
financial year if any portion of its assets, liabilities,
income, expenses or cash flows are included on a
line‑by‑line basis in the consolidated financial statements
of the ultimate parent entity of that MNE group for that
financial year;
(b) for that financial year —
(i) its FANIL;
(ii) its adjusted covered taxes; and
(iii) its eligible payroll costs (as defined in section 18(4)),
(b) are regarded as those of a constituent entity of that MNE
group to the extent that such amounts are taken into
account in the consolidated financial statements of the
ultimate parent entity of that MNE group; and
(c) for that financial year, its tangible asset carve-out amount
(as defined in section 18(3)) as a constituent entity of that
MNE group is the proportion of that amount for the full
financial year that corresponds to the proportion of the
S 1062/2024
102
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

financial year when it was a constituent entity of that MNE
group.
(2) Any purchase accounting consolidation adjustments arising
from the transfer of the ownership interests resulting in an entity
becoming a constituent entity of an MNE group must be disregarded
in determining the FANIL, qualifying current tax expense and
qualifying deferred tax expense of that entity as a constituent entity of
that MNE group in the financial year in which the transfer occurs, and
in subsequent financial years.
(3) Paragraphs (4) and (5) apply where an entity that becomes a
constituent entity of an MNE group (MNE group A) as a result of a
transfer of direct or indirect ownership interests in it, was a
constituent entity of another MNE group immediately before the
transfer (MNE group B).
(4) The amount of any deferred tax asset or liability (not including
any special loss deferred tax asset under regulation 47) of the entity
that existed immediately before the transfer to be taken into account
in relation to that entity as a constituent entity of MNE group A, is the
amount that would be taken into account if MNE group A had a
controlling interest in the entity at the time the deferred tax asset or
liability arose.
(5) Where a deferred tax liability of the entity was included in the
qualifying deferred tax expense of that entity as a constituent entity of
MNE group B —
(a) that deferred tax liability is treated as reversed for that
entity as a constituent entity of MNE group B;
(b) the deferred tax liability is treated as arising in the financial
year in which the transfer occurs for the purpose of
determining the qualifying deferred tax expense of that
entity as a constituent entity of MNE group A; and
(c) if
the
deferred
tax
liability
is
recaptured
under
regulation
46
in
a
subsequent
financial
year,
any
resulting reduction in the qualifying current tax expense
of that entity as a constituent entity of MNE group A is
S 1062/2024
103
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

only to have effect in the financial year in which the
deferred tax liability is recaptured.
When transfer of controlling interest treated as acquisition and
disposal of assets and liabilities
60.—(1) Where —
(a) a controlling interest in a constituent entity of an MNE
group is acquired or disposed of in a financial year;
(b) that acquisition or disposal is treated in the same, or a
similar manner, as a transfer of the assets and liabilities of
that constituent entity —
(i) where the constituent entity is a flow-through
entity — under the law of the jurisdiction where
the assets are located; or
(ii) in any other case — under the law of the jurisdiction
where the constituent entity is located; and
(c) that jurisdiction imposes a covered tax on the seller based
on the gain (or deemed gain) on such transfer,
that acquisition or disposal is to be treated as an acquisition or
disposal of the assets and liabilities of that constituent entity, and
regulation 59 does not apply to that acquisition or disposal.
(2) Any covered tax described in paragraph (1)(c) is to be included
in the qualifying current tax expense of the constituent entity referred
to in paragraph (1) for that financial year.
Transfer of assets or liabilities
61.—(1) Where a constituent entity of an MNE group transfers an
asset or liability to another entity or person in a financial year, any
gain or loss arising on the transfer must be included in its GloBE
income or loss for that financial year.
(2) Where a constituent entity of an MNE group acquires an asset or
liability from another entity or person in a financial year, then, in
computing its GloBE income or loss, any gain or loss arising from
that asset or liability must be determined on the basis of —
S 1062/2024
104
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

(a) where regulation 60 applies in respect of the acquisition of
that asset or liability and the transferor had determined its
gain or loss on the basis of the fair value of that asset or
liability at the time of the transfer — the fair value of that
asset or liability at that time; or
(b) in any other case — the carrying value of that asset or
liability as determined under the financial accounting
standard used in preparing the consolidated financial
statements of the ultimate parent entity of the MNE group.
(3) Despite paragraphs (1) and (2), where a constituent entity of an
MNE group transfers any asset or liability to another constituent
entity of that MNE group in the course of a reorganisation —
(a) any gain or loss on the transfer must be excluded from the
FANIL of the transferor, except to the extent it is a non-
qualifying gain or loss of the transferor; and
(b) any gain or loss on a subsequent transfer of the asset or
liability by the transferee must be determined on the basis
of the carrying value of the asset or liability recognised by
the transferor immediately before the firstmentioned
transfer, adjusted for any non‑qualifying gain or loss of
the transferor.
(4) In paragraph (3), a transfer of an asset or liability is made in the
course of a reorganisation if the transfer takes place as a result of a
merger, demerger, liquidation, change in form of an entity, or a
similar event, and conditions A, B and C are met.
(5) Condition A is that —
(a) if
consideration
is
provided
for
the
transfer,
the
consideration consists of, in whole or in significant part —
(i) in the case of a liquidation — the cancellation of
equity interests in the entity being liquidated; or
(ii) in any other case — equity interests issued by the
transferee or a person connected with the transferee;
and
S 1062/2024
105
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

(b) if no consideration is provided for the transfer — the issue
of equity interests as consideration for the transfer would
have no economic significance because the event does not
result in a change in the beneficial ownership of any entity.
(6) Condition B is that any gain or loss of the transferor that arises
from the transfer is not, in whole or in part, subject to tax.
(7) Condition C is that under the law of the jurisdiction where the
transferee is located, the value of the asset or liability for the purpose
of determining the transferee’s taxable income is the tax basis value
of the asset or liability in the hands of the transferor, adjusted for any
non-qualifying gain or loss of the transferor.
(8) Where a transfer of any asset or liability between constituent
entities of an MNE group is not made under arm’s length conditions
(as defined in regulation 21(7)), then any gain or loss arising on the
transfer that is to be included in the transferor’s GloBE income or
loss, must be adjusted to secure that the transfer is reflected as made
under arm’s length conditions.
(9) In this regulation, “non-qualifying gain or loss” means an
amount of gain or loss on the transfer of any asset or liability that —
(a) in the case of a gain, is not greater than —
(i) the amount of gain on that transfer that is subject to
tax in the jurisdiction where the transferor is located;
or
(ii) the amount of gain on that transfer that is reflected in
the FANIL of the transferor; or
(b) in the case of a loss, is not greater than —
(i) the amount of loss on that transfer that is taken into
account for tax purposes in the jurisdiction where the
transferor is located; or
(ii) the amount of loss on that transfer that is reflected in
the FANIL of the transferor.
S 1062/2024
106
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

PART 7A
MULTI-PARENT GROUP
[S 129/2025 wef 25/02/2025]
Specified types of arrangement for “multi-parent group”
61A.—(1) An arrangement mentioned in paragraph (2) or (3) that is
entered into by the ultimate parent entities of 2 or more groups is a
type of arrangement for the purpose of paragraph (a) of the definition
of “multi-parent group” in section 2(1).
(2) The first arrangement is one under which —
(a) the ultimate parent entity of each group agrees to combine
the businesses of each group by way of contractual
arrangement, and not through the holding of ownership
interests in one another; and
(b) all of the following conditions are satisfied:
(i) the arrangement provides for the ultimate parent
entity of each group to make distributions (with
respect to dividends and in liquidation) to persons
with ownership interests in the ultimate parent entity
based on a fixed ratio;
(ii) the arrangement provides for the management of the
combined businesses of each group as a single
economic entity while retaining the separate legal
personality of each ultimate parent entity;
(iii) the ownership interests in the ultimate parent entity
of each group are quoted, traded or transferred
independently in different capital markets;
(iv) the ultimate parent entity of each group prepares
consolidated financial statements —
(A) in
which
the
assets,
liabilities,
income,
expenses and cashflows of the entities of all
the groups subject to the arrangement are
presented
together
as
those
of
a
single
economic unit; and
S 1062/2024
107
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

(B) that are required by a regulatory regime to be
audited by an external auditor.
(3) The second arrangement is one under which —
(a) at least 50% of the ownership interests in the ultimate
parent entity of each group are by reason of the form of
ownership, restrictions on transfer, or other terms or
conditions, combined with each other and cannot be
transferred or traded independently;
(b) if the combined ownership interests referred to in
sub‑paragraph (a) are listed on any securities exchange
in Singapore or elsewhere, those ownership interests are
quoted at a single price; and
(c) one of those ultimate parent entities prepares consolidated
financial statements —
(i) in which the assets, liabilities, income, expenses and
cashflows of the entities of all the groups are
presented together as those of a single economic
unit; and
(ii) that are required by a regulatory regime to be audited
by an external auditor.
[S 129/2025 wef 25/02/2025]
Application of Act to multi-parent groups
61B.—(1) Parts 2 and 3 of the Act (including these Regulations
insofar as they are for carrying out or giving effect to those Parts)
applies to a multi-parent group in the following manner:
(a) all the groups comprising the multi-parent group are
treated as a single MNE group and any reference to an
MNE group is to the multi-parent group;
(b) subject to sub‑paragraph (c), the ultimate parent entity of
each group comprising the multi-parent group is treated as
the ultimate parent entity of the multi-parent group, and —
(i) except in the provisions in sub‑paragraphs (ii) and
(iii), any reference to the ultimate parent entity of an
S 1062/2024
108
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

MNE group is to the ultimate parent entity of each
group comprising the multi-parent group;
(ii) any
reference
in
section
31(2)
and
regulations 17(2)(b), 70(2) and 86(4)(a) to the
ultimate parent entity of an MNE group is to any
of the ultimate parent entities of the groups
comprising the multi-parent group; and
(iii) the reference in regulation 33(1) to the ultimate
parent entity of an MNE group is to the ultimate
parent entity that prepares the consolidated financial
statements mentioned in regulation 61A(2)(b)(iv) or
(3)(c), as the case may be;
[S 860/2025 wef 31/12/2025]
(c) paragraph (a) of section 13(2) is replaced with the
following provision:
.
“(
a)an
y of the ultimate parent entities of the groups
comprising the multi-parent group, that holds an
ownership interest in X is not a responsible member
of the multi-parent group;”;
(d) an entity of each group comprising the multi-parent group
is treated as a member of the single MNE group;
(e) an entity (called Y) (other than an excluded entity) is
treated as a constituent entity of the single MNE group, if
one or more entities in the single MNE group hold a
controlling interest in Y;
(f) for the purpose of sub‑paragraph (e), one or more entities
in the single MNE group are treated as holding a
controlling interest in Y if those entities hold an
ownership interest in Y and Y’s assets, liabilities, income,
expenses and cash flows —
(i) are consolidated on a line-by-line basis in the single
MNE group’s consolidated financial statements
S 1062/2024
109
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

mentioned in sub‑paragraph (g) in accordance with
the financial accounting standard mentioned in
sub‑paragraph (h); or
[S 860/2025 wef 31/12/2025]
(ii) would have been so consolidated but was not
required to be consolidated solely on the ground of
size or materiality or on the ground that Y is held for
sale;
[S 860/2025 wef 31/12/2025]
(g) the
consolidated
financial
statements
mentioned
in
regulation 61A(2)(b)(iv) or (3)(c) (as the case may be)
are treated as the single MNE group’s consolidated
financial
statements,
and
any
reference
to
the
consolidated financial statements of the ultimate parent
entity of an MNE group is to the secondmentioned
consolidated financial statements;
(h) the financial accounting standards in accordance with
which the single MNE group’s consolidated financial
statements mentioned in sub‑paragraph (g) were prepared
are treated as an acceptable financial accounting standard.
[S 860/2025 wef 31/12/2025]
[S 860/2025 wef 31/12/2025]
(2) Part 4 of the Act and section 50(1)(a) (including these
Regulations insofar as they are for carrying out or giving effect to
that Part or that provision) apply to a multi-parent group in the
manner set out in paragraph (1)(a) to (f), but subject to paragraphs (3)
and (4).
[S 860/2025 wef 31/12/2025]
(3) The entity liable to pay the surcharge under section 36 for a
failure to register the single MNE group is the ultimate parent entity
of every group in the single MNE group, and those ultimate parent
entities bear that liability in equal shares.
[S 860/2025 wef 31/12/2025]
(4) A reference in sections 34(2) and 38 to the ultimate parent entity
of an MNE group is to the ultimate parent entity of any of the groups
S 1062/2024
110
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

comprising the multi-parent group, as determined by the multi-parent
group.
[S 860/2025 wef 31/12/2025]
Application of regulations 61A and 61B to multi-parent groups
for purpose of Part 3 of Act, etc.
61C. Regulations 61A and 61B also apply for the purpose of Part 3
of the Act and these Regulations insofar as they are for carrying out or
giving effect to that Part.
[S 129/2025 wef 25/02/2025]
PART 8
INVESTMENT ENTITIES AND
INSURANCE INVESTMENT ENTITIES
Application of this Part
62. This Part applies to a standalone JV or an entity of a JV group
with the following modifications:
(a) except in paragraph (b), references to an MNE group are to
the standalone JV or the JV group of which the entity is a
part;
(b) references to the filing entity of an MNE group are to the
filing entity of the MNE group to which the standalone JV
or entity is connected;
(c) references to a constituent entity are to the standalone JVor
the entity.
Investment entity and insurance investment entity tax
transparency election
63.—(1) The filing entity of an MNE group may elect in a GloBE
information return (whether filed in Singapore or in another
jurisdiction) in accordance with the GloBE rules that —
(a) a specified constituent entity of that MNE group that is an
investment entity or insurance investment entity (A)
(whether or not a flow‑through entity) is treated as a
flow‑through entity;
S 1062/2024
111
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

(b) a specified constituent entity of that MNE group (B) with
interests in a share of the profits of A is treated as having
direct ownership interests in A; and
(c) A is deemed not to be a reverse hybrid entity in the
jurisdiction where B is located.
(2) Where an election in paragraph (1) is effective for any financial
year —
(a) B’s share of the direct ownership interests in A for that
financial year is treated as corresponding to B’s share of
A’s profits for that financial year;
(b) a proportion of the FANIL, qualifying current tax expense
and qualifying deferred tax expense that would otherwise
be allocated to A for that financial year, corresponding to
B’s share of the direct ownership interests in A for that
financial year, must be allocated to B;
(c) if B uses a fair value method to determine its income or loss
for that financial year arising from changes in the fair value
of its direct ownership interests in A, that income or loss, to
the extent that it is included in B’s FANIL, must be
excluded from the computation of B’s GloBE income or
loss for that financial year; and
(d) the same proportion in sub‑paragraph (b) of the eligible
payroll costs or carrying value of the eligible tangible
assets of A for that financial year must also be allocated to
B, if the eligible employees or eligible tangible assets of A
(as the case may be) are located in the same jurisdiction
as B.
(3) In paragraph (2)(d), “eligible employees”, “eligible payroll
costs”, “carrying value” and “eligible tangible assets” have the
meanings given by section 18(4) read with regulations 52 to 57.
(4) An election in paragraph (1) is only effective if —
(a) no election in regulation 64 is made in relation to A and B;
and
S 1062/2024
112
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

(b) either of the following conditions is met:
(i) B is subject to tax in the jurisdiction where it is
located on increases in the fair value of its ownership
interests in A, and the rate of tax applicable is at least
15%;
(ii) B is regulated or authorised to carry on business as an
insurer, and is wholly owned by persons who have
entered into insurance contracts with B.
(5) If an election in paragraph (1) is revoked, then, in determining
the FANIL of A —
(a) for the first financial year for which the election no longer
applies, any gain or loss from the disposition of an asset or
liability by A is determined by reference to the fair value of
that asset or liability on the first day of that financial year;
and
(b) for any subsequent financial year (and if no further election
is made in paragraph (1)), any gain or loss from the
disposition of an asset or liability by A is determined by
reference to —
(i) if A accounts for its assets and liabilities on a
realisation basis — the fair value of that asset or
liability on the first day of the financial year
mentioned in sub‑paragraph (a); and
(ii) if A accounts for its assets and liabilities on a fair
value basis — the fair value of that asset or liability
on the last day of the previous financial year.
(6) An election under paragraph (1) must not be revoked for the
financial year for which it is made or for any of the subsequent
4 financial years, and any such revocation has no effect.
(7) If an election under paragraph (1) specifying entities for the
treatment in that paragraph is revoked for a financial year, another
election under that paragraph must not be made (whether in
Singapore or in another jurisdiction) specifying the same entities
S 1062/2024
113
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

for that treatment for that or any of the subsequent 4 financial years,
and any such election has no effect.
Taxable distribution method election
64.—(1) The filing entity of an MNE group may elect in a GloBE
information return (whether filed in Singapore or in another
jurisdiction) in accordance with the GloBE rules that a specified
constituent entity of that MNE group (C) with direct ownership
interests in a specified investment entity or insurance investment
entity (D) that is a constituent entity of that MNE group, is to have
those interests treated in accordance with this regulation.
(2) An election in paragraph (1) is only effective if —
(a) no election in regulation 63 is in effect in relation to C
and D;
(b) C is not an investment entity or insurance investment
entity; and
(c) taking into account taxes on distributions and taxes
incurred by D in respect of income distributed to C, C
may reasonably be expected to be subject to tax (in the
jurisdiction where it is located) on distributions from D at a
rate equal to or exceeding 15%.
(3) Where an election in paragraph (1) is effective for a financial
year (the subject FY) —
(a) any distribution or deemed distribution from D to C in the
subject FY must be included in the FANIL of C for the
subject FY;
(b) the FANIL of C for the subject FY must be adjusted so
that —
(i) any tax credit of C in respect of tax payable by D on
the income that was distributed to C in the subject
FY, is accounted for as income (and not as a negative
amount of tax expense); and
(ii) such tax payable by D is included in C’s qualifying
current tax expense (and not D’s) for the subject FY;
S 1062/2024
114
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

(c) C’s share of D’s undistributed income amount for the
third financial year before the subject FY is treated as
D’s GloBE income for the subject FY, and the product of
that share and the minimum rate is treated as a top‑up
amount for D for the subject FY; and
(d) C’s share of D’s GloBE income or loss for the subject FY
must be disregarded for the purpose of computing
D’s top‑up amount under section 24, and (except as
provided in sub‑paragraph (b)) the adjusted covered taxes
attributable to such income must be disregarded in
computing D’s effective tax rate under section 24 or the
effective tax rate for any other entity under section 17.
(4) In paragraph (3)(c), D’s undistributed income amount for the
third financial year before the subject FYis D’s GloBE income or loss
for that third financial year, less the following:
(a) the covered taxes payable by D for that third financial year;
(b) the sum of the distributions and deemed distributions by D
to its shareholders (not being investment entities or
insurance investment entities) in the period comprising
the subject FY and the 3 preceding financial years;
(c) the sum of any negative amount of D’s GloBE income or
loss
for
each
financial
year
in
the
period
in
sub‑paragraph (b);
(d) the remaining negative amount of D’s GloBE income or
loss not deducted in arriving at D’s undistributed income
amount for a financial year in a previous application of
sub‑paragraph (c) or this sub‑paragraph,
except that —
(e) no amount in sub‑paragraphs (a) to (d) is to be deducted if
it
has
already
been
deducted
in
determining
D’s undistributed income amount for any financial year
in a previous application of this regulation; and
(f) if the amount determined by this paragraph is negative, the
amount is treated as zero.
S 1062/2024
115
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

(5) In paragraphs (3)(a), (4)(b) and (10)(b), “deemed distribution”,
for a financial year, includes any income of D for that financial year to
the extent it is not distributed but, under the law of the jurisdiction
where C is located, is considered to be realised by C and for which C
is subject to tax for that financial year.
(6) In paragraphs (3)(a) and (4)(b), a deemed distribution is treated
as made by D to C when any part of C’s direct ownership interest in D
is transferred to a person that is not a constituent entity of the MNE
group of C and D, and the amount of the deemed distribution is
determined by the formula —
E  F
G ;
where —
(a) E is the sum of C’s share of D’s undistributed income
amount for each of the following financial years:
(i) the financial year in which the transfer took place
(transfer FY);
(ii) the first financial year and the second financial year
before the transfer FY (transfer FY‑1 and transfer
FY‑2, respectively);
(b) F is the value of the direct ownership interest in D
transferred by C; and
(c) G is the value of all the direct ownership interests in D held
by C before the transfer.
(7) In the definition of “E” in paragraph (6), D’s undistributed
income amount, in relation to a financial year, is D’s GloBE income
or loss for that financial year, less the following:
(a) the covered taxes payable by D for that financial year;
(b) the
sum
of
distributions
and
deemed
distributions
(excluding
any
deemed
distribution
referred
to
in
paragraph (6)) by D to its shareholders (not being
investment entities or insurance investment entities) in
the following period:
S 1062/2024
116
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

(i) where the financial year is transfer FY — the period
comprising transfer FY;
(ii) where the financial year is transfer FY-1 — the
period comprising transfer FY‑1 and transfer FY;
(iii) where the financial year is transfer FY‑2 — the
period comprising transfer FY‑2, transfer FY‑1 and
transfer FY;
(c) the sum of any negative amount of D’s GloBE income or
loss
for
each
financial
year
in
the
period
in
sub‑paragraph (b);
(d) the remaining negative amount of D’s GloBE income or
loss not deducted in arriving at D’s undistributed income
amount for a financial year in a previous application of
sub‑paragraph (c) or this sub‑paragraph,
except that —
(e) no amount in sub‑paragraphs (a) to (d) is to be deducted if
it
has
already
been
deducted
in
determining
D’s undistributed income amount for any financial year
in a previous application of this regulation; and
(f) if the amount determined by this paragraph is negative, the
amount is treated as zero.
(8) An election under paragraph (1) must not be revoked for the
financial year for which it is made or for any of the subsequent
4 financial years, and any such revocation has no effect.
(9) If an election under paragraph (1) is revoked, the product of —
(a) the sum of C’s share of D’s undistributed income amount
for each of the 3 financial years (FY‑3, FY‑2 and FY‑1,
respectively) before the first financial year for which the
election ceases to apply; and
(b) the minimum rate,
is treated as a top-up amount for D for the first financial year for
which the election ceases to apply.
S 1062/2024
117
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

(10) In paragraph (9), D’s undistributed income amount, in relation
to a financial year, is D’s GloBE income or loss for that financial year,
less the following:
(a) the covered taxes payable by D for that financial year;
(b) the sum of distributions and deemed distributions by D to
its shareholders (not being investment entities or insurance
investment entities) in the following period:
(i) where the financial year is FY-1 — the period
comprising FY‑1;
(ii) where the financial year is FY-2 — the period
comprising FY‑2 and FY‑1;
(iii) where the financial year is FY‑3 — the period
comprising FY‑3, FY‑2 and FY‑1;
(c) the sum of any negative amount of D’s GloBE income or
loss
for
each
financial
year
in
the
period
in
sub‑paragraph (b);
(d) the remaining negative amount of D’s GloBE income or
loss not deducted in arriving at D’s undistributed income
amount for a financial year in a previous application of
sub‑paragraph (c) or this sub‑paragraph,
except that —
(e) no amount in sub‑paragraphs (a) to (d) is to be deducted if
it
has
already
been
deducted
in
determining
D’s
undistributed income amount for any financial year in a
previous application of this regulation; and
(f) if the amount determined by this paragraph is negative, the
amount is treated as zero.
(11) If an election under paragraph (1) specifying entities for the
treatment in this regulation is revoked for a financial year, another
election under paragraph (1) must not be made (whether in Singapore
or in another jurisdiction) specifying the same entities for that
treatment for that or any of the subsequent 4 financial years, and any
such election has no effect.
S 1062/2024
118
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

(12) In this regulation, C’s share of D’s undistributed income
amount for a financial year is C’s share of that amount based on its
ownership interests in D in that financial year.
PART 9
GLOBE SAFE HARBOUR
Division 1 — Preliminary provisions
Application of this Part
65.—(1) Divisions 2 and 3 apply for the purposes of determining,
for Part 2 of the Act, the top‑up amount of a relevant entity of an
MNE group.
(2) Division 4 applies for the purposes of determining, for Part 2 of
the Act, the top‑up amount of a relevant entity of an MNE group but
not one that is a joint venture or JV subsidiary connected to an MNE
group.
(3) Division 2 applies for the purposes of determining, for Part 3 of
the Act, the top‑up amount of a constituent entity of an MNE group
located in Singapore or a joint venture or JV subsidiary connected to
an MNE group located in Singapore.
(4) Division 4 applies for the purposes of determining, for Part 3 of
the Act, the top‑up amount of a constituent entity of an MNE group
located in Singapore but not a joint venture or JV subsidiary
connected to an MNE group located in Singapore.
Division 2 — Transitional CbCR safe harbour
Definitions for this Division
66. In this Division —
“de minimis test” means the test under regulation 71;
“OECD guidance on country-by-country reporting” means the
guidance on country‑by‑country reporting contained in the
Organisation
for
Economic
Co‑operation
and
Development
(OECD)
Guidance
on
Transfer
Pricing
S 1062/2024
119
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

Documentation
and
Country‑by‑Country
Reporting,
published in September 2014, as amended from time to time;
“simplified effective tax rate test” means the test under
regulation 72;
“simplified income tax expense” means income tax expense as
reported in the qualified financial statements of an MNE
group that is adjusted to exclude —
(a) any amount that does not relate to covered taxes;
[S 860/2025 wef 31/12/2025]
(b) any amount that relates to an uncertain tax position;
and
[S 860/2025 wef 31/12/2025]
(c) any
amount
of
deferred
tax
expense
that
is
attributable to a reversal of a deferred tax asset or
deferred tax liability that arose as described in
regulation 91(1)(b) and (2), but not any amount
that may be included in the adjusted covered taxes of
the constituent entity for the financial year concerned
because of regulation 91(3);
[S 860/2025 wef 31/12/2025]
“routine profits test” means the test under regulation 73.
“Qualifying country-by-country report”
67.—(1) In this Division, “qualifying country‑by‑country report”,
in relation to a jurisdiction, means a country‑by‑country report
prepared on the basis of qualified financial statements of an MNE
group.
(2) “Country-by-country
report”
means
a
country‑by‑country
report in respect of an MNE group that is prepared in accordance
with the law of the jurisdiction implementing the OECD guidance on
country‑by‑country reporting.
(3) But where the law of a jurisdiction permits the preparation and
filing of a partial country‑by‑country report, such a partial report is
not to be regarded as a country‑by‑country report for the purposes of
this Division.
S 1062/2024
120
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

(4) A reference to a country-by-country report in respect of an
MNE group that is a multi‑parent group is to a country‑by‑country
report in respect of all of the constituent groups.
“Qualified financial statements”
68.—(1) In this Division, “qualified financial statements”, in
relation to an MNE group, means —
(a) the financial accounts used to prepare the consolidated
financial statements of the ultimate parent entity; or
(b) financial statements of constituent entities of the MNE
group prepared in accordance with an acceptable financial
accounting standard or authorised financial accounting
standard, but only if the information in the financial
statements is reliable.
(2) Whether information in financial statements is “reliable” is to
be determined by reference to the GloBE rules.
(3) Where the assets, liabilities, income, expenses and cash flows of
a constituent entity of an MNE group are excluded from the
consolidated financial statements of the ultimate parent entity of
the MNE group solely due to size or materiality grounds, the financial
accounts of that constituent entity that are used for the preparation of
the MNE group’s qualifying country‑by‑country report are to be
regarded
as
forming
part
of
the
financial
statements
in
paragraph (1)(a) or (b), as the case may be.
(4) Where a permanent establishment does not have financial
statements for the purpose of preparing the financial statements in
paragraph (1)(a) or (b), the separate financial statements prepared by
its main entity for financial reporting, regulatory, tax reporting or
internal management control purposes are to be regarded as forming
part of the financial statements in paragraph (1)(a) or (b), as the case
may be.
(5) Where purchase price accounting adjustments (called in this
regulation PPA adjustments) are included in any financial accounts of
a constituent entity used to prepare the consolidated financial
statements in paragraph (1)(a) or any financial statements of a
S 1062/2024
121
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

constituent entity in paragraph (1)(b), those financial accounts or
financial statements (as the case may be) are not considered
“qualified
financial
statements”,
unless
the
condition
in
paragraph (6) is met.
(6) The condition mentioned in paragraph (5) is that a qualifying
country‑by‑country report has not been submitted for the MNE group
in relation to the jurisdiction concerned for any financial year
beginning after 31 December 2022 that was based on the constituent
entity’s financial accounts or financial statements without PPA
adjustments, except in a case where the constituent entity was
required by the law of that jurisdiction to change its financial
accounts or financial statements to include the PPA adjustments.
Constituent entities eligible for Transitional CbCR Safe
Harbour
69.—(1) Subject to paragraphs (2) and (3), every constituent entity
of an MNE group located in a jurisdiction is eligible for a GloBE Safe
Harbour in this Division (called the Transitional CbCR Safe Harbour)
for a financial year if the conditions in regulation 70 are met.
(2) An investment entity or insurance investment entity (X) of the
MNE group located in a jurisdiction is eligible for the Transitional
CbCR Safe Harbour for a financial year only if —
(a) all the constituent entities of the MNE group with direct
ownership interests in X are located in that jurisdiction; and
(b) no election has been made in respect of X under
regulation 63 or 64 for that financial year.
(3) A constituent entity of the MNE group located in the same
jurisdiction as the ultimate parent entity (Y) of the MNE group that is
a flow-through entity, is not eligible for the Transitional CbCR Safe
Harbour for a financial year unless, were Y’s GloBE income or loss
determined for that financial year in accordance with paragraph 6 of
the First Schedule to the Act —
(a) Y’s GloBE income or loss would be nil as a result of the
application of paragraph 6(12) of the First Schedule to the
Act; and
S 1062/2024
122
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

(b) no amount of FANIL of any permanent establishment
would be allocated, as a result of regulation 27, to Y.
Conditions for application of Transitional CbCR Safe Harbour
70.—(1) Constituent entities of an MNE group located in a
jurisdiction (jurisdiction Z) and specified in regulation 69, are
eligible for the Transitional CbCR Safe Harbour for a financial year
if, and only if, the following conditions are met:
(a) the financial year commences in the period between
1 January 2025 and 31 December 2026 (both dates
inclusive), and ends on or before 30 June 2028;
(b) a qualifying country-by-country report has been prepared
for the MNE group in relation to jurisdiction Z for the
financial year;
(c) for each preceding financial year —
(i) that any constituent entity of the MNE group located
in jurisdiction Z came within the scope of the law of
any jurisdiction imposing a qualified IIR or a
qualified UTPR; or
(ii) for which the MNE group was liable to be registered
under Part 4 of the Act,
(c) if any, an election was made to apply for that financial year
the Transitional CbCR Safe Harbour or its equivalent
under the law of any other jurisdiction (as the case may be),
to constituent entities of the MNE group located in
jurisdiction Z;
(d) an election described in regulation 48(1) was not made for
that financial year with respect to any constituent entity
located in jurisdiction Z;
(e) at least one of the following tests is met for jurisdiction Z in
the financial year:
(i) the de minimis test;
(ii) the simplified effective tax rate test;
S 1062/2024
123
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

(iii) the routine profits test.
(2) Where there is no requirement in the law of jurisdiction Z for a
country‑by‑country report to be prepared in respect of an MNE group,
the condition in paragraph (1)(b) is considered met if the filing entity
of the MNE group has included, in the GloBE information return in
which the election applying the Transitional CbCR Safe Harbour for
jurisdiction Z for the financial year is made, the information that
would have been in such a report —
(a) prepared in accordance with legislation implementing the
OECD guidance on country‑by‑country reporting under
the law of the jurisdiction in which the ultimate parent
entity is located; or
(b) where there is no such law — prepared in accordance with
that guidance.
De minimis test
71.—(1) The de minimis test is met for a jurisdiction in a financial
year if —
(a) the total revenue of the constituent entities of the MNE
group in that jurisdiction for that financial year as reported
on its qualifying country‑by‑country report is less than
EUR 10 million; and
(b) a total profit of less than EUR 1 million, or a loss, before
income tax of those constituent entities of the MNE group
in that jurisdiction for that financial year, is reported on its
qualifying country‑by‑country report.
(2) Where the constituent entities of an MNE group in a jurisdiction
include an entity held for sale and the revenue of that entity is not
otherwise included in the amount determined for the purposes of
paragraph (1)(a), that revenue is to be so included.
Simplified effective tax rate test
72.—(1) The simplified effective tax rate test is met for a
jurisdiction in a financial year if the simplified effective tax rate
for the constituent entities of an MNE group in that jurisdiction is —
S 1062/2024
124
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

(a) in the case of a financial year beginning in 2025 — at least
16%; or
(b) in the case of a financial year beginning on or after
1 January 2026 — at least 17%.
(2) The simplified effective tax rate for the constituent entities of an
MNE group in a jurisdiction in a financial year is the amount
(expressed as a percentage) given by dividing —
(a) the total simplified income tax expense of those constituent
entities of the MNE group in that jurisdiction for that
financial year; by
(b) the total profit or loss before income tax of those
constituent entities of the MNE group in that jurisdiction
for that financial year as reported on its qualifying
country‑by‑country report.
Routine profits test
73.—(1) The routine profits test is met for a jurisdiction in a
financial year if —
(a) the qualified substance-based income exclusion amount of
the MNE group for that jurisdiction for that financial year
is equal to or greater than the profit or loss before income
tax for that financial year of the constituent entities of the
MNE group located in that jurisdiction as reported in its
qualifying country‑by‑country report; or
(b) the profit or loss before income tax of those constituent
entities for that financial year as reported in its qualifying
country‑by‑country report is nil or reflects an overall loss.
(2) The “qualified substance-based income exclusion amount” of
an MNE group for a jurisdiction for a financial year is the
substance‑based income exclusion for the constituent entities
located in that jurisdiction of the MNE group for that financial
year as determined by section 18 (or that section as applied by
section 23 or 24(12), in the case of a constituent entity that is a
minority‑owned constituent entity, or an investment entity or
insurance investment entity, as the case may be), ignoring any
S 1062/2024
125
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

payroll carve‑out amount or tangible asset carve‑out amount of any
constituent entity of the MNE group in that jurisdiction —
(a) that is not regarded as a constituent entity of the MNE
group for the purposes of the MNE group’s qualifying
country‑by‑country report; or
(b) that is not regarded as located in that jurisdiction for the
purposes of that report.
(3) In paragraph (2), “payroll carve‑out amount” and “tangible
asset carve‑out amount” have the meanings given respectively by
section 18(2) and (3).
Basis for determining whether de minimis test, etc., met
74.—(1) Subject to any adjustment required under regulations 75
and 76, the basis for the purpose of determining whether the de
minimis test, the simplified effective tax rate test or the routine profits
test is met is information derived from one of the documents
mentioned in paragraph (2) of the MNE group as to —
(a) revenue;
(b) profit or loss before income tax;
(c) simplified income tax expense;
(d) payroll costs; or
(e) the carrying value of assets.
(2) The document is whichever of the following was used to
prepare the qualifying country‑by‑country report in relation to the
jurisdiction:
(a) qualified
financial
statements
falling
within
regulation 68(1)(a), along with any financial accounts
and financial statements treated as forming part of the
qualified financial statements under regulation 68(3)
and (4);
(b) qualified
financial
statements
falling
within
regulation 68(1)(b), along with any financial accounts
and financial statements treated as forming part of the
S 1062/2024
126
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

qualified financial statements under regulation 68(3)
and (4).
(3) The information as to the matters in paragraph (1)(a) to (e) for
the purpose of determining whether a particular test is met must be
derived from a single set of documents in paragraph (2).
(4) Where the information described in paragraph (1) in respect of a
jurisdiction is not available in qualified financial statements of an
MNE group, no election may be made in respect of that jurisdiction.
Adjustments
75.—(1) This regulation sets out adjustments that must be made to
the information in regulation 74(1) for the purpose mentioned in that
provision.
(2) Where —
(a) the constituent entities of an MNE group in a jurisdiction
have a net unrealised fair value loss for a financial year;
and
(b) that loss exceeds EUR 50 million,
that loss is to be excluded from the profit or loss before income tax of
those constituent entities.
(3) For the purpose of paragraph (2), the constituent entities of an
MNE group in a jurisdiction have a net unrealised fair value loss for a
financial year to the extent their losses that arise from changes in fair
value of relevant ownership interests exceed gains arising from
changes in fair value of relevant ownership interests.
(4) For the purpose of paragraph (3), an ownership interest in an
entity is “relevant” unless, at the end of the financial year, the direct
ownership interests in that entity that are held by one or more
constituent entities of the MNE group carry in total rights to less than
10% of the profits, capital, reserves or voting rights of that entity.
(5) For the purpose of applying the de minimis test, the simplified
effective tax rate test or the routine profits test —
(a) the profit or loss before income tax;
S 1062/2024
127
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

(b) the revenue; and
(c) the income tax expense,
that are attributable to an investment entity or insurance investment
entity (X) of the MNE group must only be included in the profit or
loss
before
income
tax,
revenue
and
income
tax
expense
(respectively) of the constituent entity or entities of that MNE
group that has or have direct ownership interests in X, and the
amounts so included must be in proportion to its or their ownership
interests in X.
(6) In a case described in regulation 68(5) that meets the condition
in regulation 68(6), any amount recorded as a reduction in income in a
constituent entity’s financial accounts that is attributable to an
impairment of goodwill related to transactions entered into after
30 November 2021, must be added to its profit or loss before income
tax, for the purposes of —
(a) determining if the simplified effective tax rate test is met,
but only if its financial accounts do not also have a reversal
of a deferred tax liability, or a recognition or increase of a
deferred tax asset, in respect of the impairment; and
(b) determining if the routine profits test is met.
Further adjustments for certain arrangements
76.—(1) This regulation sets out further adjustments that must be
made to the information in regulation 74(1) with respect to any of the
following arrangements entered into after 15 December 2022:
(a) a deduction/non-inclusion arrangement;
(b) a duplicate loss arrangement;
(c) a duplicate tax recognition arrangement.
(2) Any
expense
or
loss
arising
as
a
result
of
a
deduction/non‑inclusion arrangement or duplicate loss arrangement
entered into after 15 December 2022 must be excluded from the profit
or loss before income tax.
(3) However, where, in the case of a duplicate loss arrangement
arising under paragraph (9)(a), the constituent entities that include in
S 1062/2024
128
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

their financial statements the expense or loss resulting from the
arrangement are located in the same jurisdiction, the adjustment
described in paragraph (2) need not be made to the profit or loss
before income tax of one of those constituent entities.
(4) Any income tax expense arising as a result of a duplicate tax
recognition arrangement entered into after 15 December 2022 must
be excluded from the simplified income tax expense.
(5) In this regulation, an arrangement is considered as having been
entered into after 15 December 2022 if, after that date —
(a) the arrangement is amended or transferred to another party;
(b) the performance of any right or obligation under the
arrangement differs from the performance thereof before
that date (including where payments are reduced or ceased
with the effect of increasing the balance of a liability); or
(c) there is a change in the accounting treatment with respect
to the arrangement.
(6) In this regulation, a “deduction/non-inclusion arrangement” is
an arrangement under which one constituent entity (A) directly or
indirectly provides credit or otherwise makes an investment in
another constituent entity that results in an expense or loss in the
financial statements of any constituent entity (B) (which may or may
not be the same entity as the second-mentioned entity) to the extent
that —
(a) there is no commensurate increase in the revenue or gain in
the financial statements of A; or
(b) A is not reasonably expected over the life of the
arrangement to have a commensurate increase in its
taxable income.
(7) However, an arrangement is not a “deduction/non‑inclusion
arrangement” to the extent that the relevant expense or loss is solely
with respect to any additional tier one capital.
(8) In paragraph (6)(b), A is not considered to have a commensurate
increase in its taxable income to the extent that —
S 1062/2024
129
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

(a) the amount included in taxable income is offset by a tax
attribute (such as a loss carry forward or an unused interest
carry
forward)
with
respect
to
which
a
valuation
adjustment or accounting recognition adjustment has
been made or would have been made if the adjustment
determination were made without regard to any constituent
entity’s ability to use the tax attribute with respect to a
deduction/non‑inclusion arrangement, a duplicate loss
arrangement, or a duplicate tax recognition arrangement
entered into after 15 December 2022; or
(b) the payment that gives rise to the expense or loss also gives
rises to a taxable deduction or loss of any constituent entity
located in the same jurisdiction as B without being
included as an expense or loss in determining the profit
or loss before income tax for that jurisdiction (including as
a result of being an expense or loss in the financial
statements of a flow‑through entity owned by a constituent
entity located in the same jurisdiction as B).
(9) In this regulation, a “duplicate loss arrangement” is an
arrangement that results in an expense or loss being included in the
financial statements of a constituent entity (A) to the extent that —
(a) the expense or loss is also included as an expense or loss in
the financial statements of another constituent entity (B1);
or
(b) the arrangement also gives rise to a duplicate amount that
is deductible for the purpose of determining the taxable
income of another constituent entity (B2) under the law of
another jurisdiction.
(10) However —
(a) an arrangement is not a “duplicate loss arrangement” under
paragraph (9)(a) to the extent that the amount of the
relevant expense is offset against revenue which is
included in the financial statements of both A and B1; and
(b) an arrangement is not a “duplicate loss arrangement” under
paragraph (9)(b) to the extent that the amount of the
S 1062/2024
130
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

relevant expense is offset against revenue or income which
is included in both —
(i) the financial statements of A; and
(ii) the taxable income of B2.
(11) In this regulation, a “duplicate tax recognition arrangement” is
an arrangement that results in more than one constituent entity of the
MNE group including part or all of the same income tax expense in
its —
(a) adjusted covered taxes; or
(b) simplified
effective
tax
rate
as
described
in
regulation
72(2)
for
the
purposes
of
meeting
the
simplified effective tax rate test,
unless such arrangement also results in the income on which the tax is
payable being included in the relevant financial statements of each
such constituent entity.
(12) However, an arrangement is not a “duplicate tax recognition
arrangement” if it arises solely because the simplified effective tax
rate described in paragraph (11)(b) of a constituent entity (A) does not
require adjustments for income tax expenses which would be
allocated to another constituent entity in determining A’s adjusted
covered taxes.
Application of this Division to joint ventures and JV
subsidiaries
77.—(1) This Division applies to joint ventures and JV subsidiaries
connected to an MNE group and located in a jurisdiction as it applies
to constituent entities of an MNE group located in a jurisdiction.
(2) For the purpose of paragraph (1) —
(a) sub‑paragraph (b) of regulation 70(1) is omitted;
(b) the reference in regulation 68(3) to “the financial accounts
of that constituent entity that are used for the preparation of
the MNE group’s qualifying country‑by‑country report”
are to the financial accounts that would be used if a
qualifying country‑by‑country report had been prepared in
S 1062/2024
131
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

respect of the standalone JV, or the JV group of which the
joint venture or JV subsidiary is a part, as the case may be;
(c) the “qualified substance-based income exclusion amount”
of an MNE group for a jurisdiction for a financial year in
regulation 73(1) is the substance-based income exclusion
determined for the joint ventures or JV subsidiaries located
in the jurisdiction for the financial year in accordance with
section 18 (as applied by section 25); and
(d) separate elections under regulation 70(1)(c) must be made
for applying the Transitional CbCR Safe Harbour for that
jurisdiction for each standalone JV, or entities of each JV
group, from the election made for constituent entities of the
MNE group.
Division 3 — QDMTT Safe Harbour
Constituent entities eligible for QDMTT Safe Harbour
78.—(1) Every constituent entity of an MNE group (not being an
entity mentioned in paragraph (3) or (4)) located in a jurisdiction is
eligible for a GloBE Safe Harbour in this Division (called the
Qualified Domestic Minimum Top‑Up Tax Safe Harbour or QDMTT
Safe Harbour) for a financial year if —
(a) the MNE group comes within the scope of the law of the
jurisdiction that imposes a qualified domestic minimum
top‑up tax for that financial year;
(b) the qualified domestic minimum top-up tax is described in
regulation 96, as one to which this regulation applies; and
[S 129/2025 wef 25/02/2025]
(c) none of the disqualifying conditions in regulation 80 apply
for that financial year.
(2) Every joint venture or JV subsidiary connected to an MNE
group located in a jurisdiction is eligible for the QDMTT Safe
Harbour for a financial year if —
(a) the conditions in paragraph (1)(a) and (b) are satisfied; and
[S 129/2025 wef 25/02/2025]
S 1062/2024
132
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

(b) none of the disqualifying conditions in regulation 81 apply
for that financial year.
(3) Every constituent entity of an MNE group that is an investment
entity or insurance investment entity located in a jurisdiction is
eligible for the QDMTT Safe Harbour if —
(a) the conditions in paragraph (1)(a) and (b) are satisfied; and
[S 129/2025 wef 25/02/2025]
(b) none of the disqualifying conditions in regulation 82 apply
for that financial year.
(4) Every
constituent
entity
of
an
MNE
group
that
is
a
minority‑owned constituent entity located in a jurisdiction is
eligible for the QDMTT Safe Harbour if —
(a) the conditions in paragraph (1)(a) and (b) are satisfied; and
[S 129/2025 wef 25/02/2025]
(b) none of the disqualifying conditions in regulation 83 apply
for that financial year.
Elections for QDMTT Safe Harbour
79. Separate elections must be made by the filing entity of an MNE
group for the application of the QDMTT Safe Harbour for —
(a) the entities of the MNE group in regulation 78(1);
(b) the
entities
connected
to
the
MNE
group
in
regulation 78(2);
(c) the entities of the MNE group in regulation 78(3); and
(d) the entities of the MNE group in regulation 78(4).
Disqualifying conditions for constituent entities other than
special entities
80.—(1) Conditions A, B, C, D and E are disqualifying conditions
for the purposes of regulation 78(1)(c) in relation to an MNE group
and a jurisdiction.
[S 860/2025 wef 31/12/2025]
S 1062/2024
133
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

(2) Condition A is that —
(a) the MNE group has a responsible member located in the
jurisdiction that is —
(i) not the ultimate parent entity of the MNE group; and
(ii) a flow-through entity; and
(b) the law of that jurisdiction imposing a qualified domestic
minimum top‑up tax does not impose a charge on a
responsible
member
of
an
MNE
group
that
is
a
flow‑through entity in any circumstance.
(3) Condition B is that —
(a) the law of that jurisdiction imposing a qualified domestic
minimum top‑up tax provides that it does not apply to an
MNE group in the initial phase of the MNE group’s
international activity;
(b) that provision is not limited in application to circumstances
where the constituent entities of an MNE group in the
jurisdiction are not within the scope of a law of the
jurisdiction imposing a qualified IIR; and
(c) that provision applies to the MNE group.
(4) Condition C is that the enforceability of an amount of qualified
domestic minimum top‑up tax accruing to a constituent entity of the
MNE group in the jurisdiction is in question.
(4A) Condition D is that a constituent entity of the MNE group
located in the jurisdiction in a financial year is a securitisation entity
and either —
(a) a securitisation entity does not come within the scope of
the qualified domestic minimum top-up tax imposed by the
law of that jurisdiction; or
(b) a securitisation entity comes within the scope of the
qualified domestic minimum top-up tax imposed by the
law of that jurisdiction, but —
(i) the law imposes liability for that tax in respect of
income of a securitisation entity (X) on another
S 1062/2024
134
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

constituent entity of that MNE group that is not a
securitisation entity; and
(ii) the law does not impose liability for that tax on X if
the liability mentioned in sub‑paragraph (i) cannot
otherwise be collected.
[S 860/2025 wef 31/12/2025]
(4B) Condition E is that —
(a) a constituent entity of the MNE group located in the
jurisdiction in a financial year has a deferred tax asset or
deferred
tax
liability
that
arises
as
described
in
regulation 91(1)(b)(i) or (ii) or (2) (whether or not
regulation 91 applies to the deferred tax asset or deferred
tax liability); and
(b) the law of the jurisdiction imposing a qualified domestic
minimum top-up tax either —
(i) does
not
make
provision
corresponding
to
regulation 91(1)(b) and (2), and to exclude an
amount
mentioned
in
paragraph
(c)
of
the
definition of “simplified income tax expense” in
regulation
66
in
determining
an
amount
that
corresponds to “simplified income tax expense” in
regulation 66; or
(ii) makes any such corresponding provision in a way
that is inconsistent with the document entitled “Tax
Challenges Arising from the Digitalisation of the
Economy — Administrative Guidance on Article 9.1
of the Global Anti-Base Erosion Model Rules”,
published by the OECD on 15 January 2025.
[S 860/2025 wef 31/12/2025]
(5) For the purpose of paragraph (4), the enforceability of an
amount of qualified domestic minimum top‑up tax accruing to a
constituent entity is in question if that amount is —
(a) contested in any judicial or administrative proceedings in
that jurisdiction; or
S 1062/2024
135
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

(b) determined by the tax authority of that jurisdiction that the
tax is not assessable or collectible,
on constitutional or similar grounds in that jurisdiction or any specific
agreement with the government of that jurisdiction limiting the tax
liability of the constituent entity.
Disqualifying conditions for joint ventures and JV subsidiaries
81.—(1) Conditions A, B, C, D and E in regulation 80 (as modified
by paragraph (2)), and Condition F, are disqualifying conditions for
the purposes of regulation 78(2)(b) in relation to an MNE group and a
jurisdiction.
[S 860/2025 wef 31/12/2025]
(2) Conditions C and D in regulation 80 are modified as follows:
(a) a reference in those Conditions to the MNE group is to the
joint venture (if it is a standalone JV) or the JV group of
which the joint venture or JV subsidiary is a part, as the
case may be;
(b) a reference in Condition C to a constituent entity of the
MNE group is to the joint venture or JV subsidiary;
(c) a reference in Condition D to a constituent entity of the
MNE group includes the joint venture or JV subsidiary.
[S 860/2025 wef 31/12/2025]
(3) Condition F is that the law of that jurisdiction imposing a
qualified domestic minimum top-up tax does not impose such tax on
the joint venture or JV subsidiary.
[S 860/2025 wef 31/12/2025]
Disqualifying conditions for investment entities or insurance
investment entities
82.—(1) Conditions A, B, C, D and E in regulation 80 (as modified
by paragraph (2)), and Condition F, are disqualifying conditions for
the purposes of regulation 78(3)(b) in relation to an MNE group and a
jurisdiction.
[S 860/2025 wef 31/12/2025]
S 1062/2024
136
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

(2) Condition C in regulation 80 is modified by replacing any
reference to a constituent entity of the MNE group with an investment
entity or insurance investment entity of the MNE group.
[S 860/2025 wef 31/12/2025]
(3) Condition F is that investment entities or insurance investment
entities of an MNE group do not come within the scope of the law of
that jurisdiction imposing a qualified domestic minimum top‑up tax.
[S 860/2025 wef 31/12/2025]
Disqualifying conditions for minority-owned constituent
entities
83.—(1) Conditions A, B, C, D and E in regulation 80 (as modified
by paragraph (2)) are disqualifying conditions for the purposes of
regulation 78(4)(b) in relation to an MNE group and a jurisdiction.
[S 860/2025 wef 31/12/2025]
(2) Condition C in regulation 80 is modified by replacing any
reference to a constituent entity of the MNE group with a
minority‑owned constituent entity of the MNE group.
[S 860/2025 wef 31/12/2025]
Division 4 — Simplified calculations safe harbour
“Non-material constituent entity” or “NMCE”
84.—(1) In this Division, “non-material constituent entity” or
“NMCE” means a constituent entity of an MNE group (other than one
consisting
solely
of
an
main
entity
and
its
permanent
establishment) —
(a) whose assets, liabilities, income, expenses and cash flows
are excluded from the consolidated financial statements of
the ultimate parent entity solely on size or materiality
grounds; and
(b) that meets the conditions A, B and C.
(2) Condition A is that the consolidated financial statements have
been prepared in accordance with an acceptable financial accounting
standard or, if not prepared in accordance with such standard, have
been prepared with adjustments to prevent any material competitive
distortions.
S 1062/2024
137
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

(3) Condition B is that the consolidated financial statements are
externally audited.
(4) Condition
C
is
that,
if
the
entity’s
revenue
exceeds
EUR 50 million for the financial year in question, its financial
accounts
for
that
financial
year
that
are
used
to
prepare
country‑by‑country report (as defined in regulation 67(2)), are
prepared in accordance with an acceptable financial accounting
standard or an authorised financial accounting standard.
(5) A permanent establishment is an NMCE only if its main entity
is itself an NMCE.
Conditions for application of Simplified Calculations Safe
Harbour
85.—(1) Every constituent entity of an MNE group within a
sub‑group that is located in a jurisdiction is eligible for a GloBE Safe
Harbour in this Division (called the Simplified Calculations Safe
Harbour) for a financial year if —
(a) at least one entity of the sub‑group in that jurisdiction is an
NMCE
for
which
an
election
is
made
under
regulation 86(1); and
(b) at least one of the following tests is met by that sub‑group
for that jurisdiction in that financial year:
(i) if the sub‑group is sub‑group 1, 2 or 3 — the routine
profits test;
(ii) if the sub‑group is sub‑group 4 — the de minimis
test;
(iii) if the sub‑group is sub‑group 1, 2 or 3 — the
effective tax rate test.
(2) The routine profits test is met by a sub‑group for a jurisdiction in
a
financial
year
if
the
substance-based
income
exclusion
(as determined by section 18) for the entities of the sub‑group
located in that jurisdiction for that financial year is equal to or greater
than the GloBE income or loss for that financial year of those entities.
S 1062/2024
138
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

(3) The de minimis test is met by a sub‑group for a jurisdiction in a
financial year (FY) if —
(a) the
average
of
the
following
sums
is
less
than
EUR 10 million:
(i) the sum of the adjusted revenues of those entities for
FY;
(ii) the sum of the adjusted revenues of the entities of
that sub‑group in the preceding financial year
(FY‑1), for FY‑1;
(iii) the sum of the adjusted revenues of the entities of
that sub‑group in the financial year preceding FY‑1
(FY‑2), for FY‑2; and
(b) the
average
of
the
following
sums
is
less
than
EUR 1 million:
(i) the sum of the GloBE income or loss of the entities in
sub‑paragraph (a)(i) for FY;
(ii) the sum of the GloBE income or loss of the entities of
that sub‑group in FY‑1, for FY-1;
(iii) the sum of the GloBE income or loss of the entities of
that sub‑group in FY‑2, for FY-2.
(4) In paragraph (3), if —
(a) none of the entities mentioned in paragraph (3)(a)(ii) and
(b)(ii); or
(b) none of the entities mentioned in paragraph (3)(a)(iii) and
(b)(iii),
had any adjusted revenue or GloBE income or loss for FY‑1 or FY‑2
(as the case may be), that financial year is disregarded in computing
the average of the sums in paragraph (3)(a) and (b).
(5) For the purposes of paragraph (3), if any financial year in that
paragraph is longer or shorter than a year, then —
(a) the sum of the adjusted revenues; or
(b) the sum of the GloBE income or loss,
S 1062/2024
139
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

of the entities for that financial year is the amount arrived at by
multiplying that sum by the amount given by dividing 365 by the
number of days in that financial year.
(6) The effective tax rate test is met by a sub‑group for a jurisdiction
in a financial year if the effective tax rate (as determined in
accordance with section 17, including that section as applied by
section 23, or section 24, as the case may be) for the entities of that
sub‑group is at least 15%.
(7) Paragraphs (2), (3) and (6) are subject to regulation 86.
[S 860/2025 wef 31/12/2025]
(8) In this regulation and regulation 85A —
“adjusted revenue”, in relation to a constituent entity for a
financial year, means the revenue of the constituent entity
that is taken into account in its FANIL for the financial year
after making the adjustments prescribed in regulation 95;
“sub‑group”, in relation to an MNE group, means sub‑group 1,
sub‑group 2, sub‑group 3 or sub‑group 4 of the MNE group;
“sub‑group 1”, in relation to an MNE group, means every
constituent entity (not being a special entity) of the MNE
group;
“sub‑group 2”, in relation to an MNE group, means every
minority‑owned constituent entity (not being an investment
entity or insurance investment entity) of the MNE group;
“sub‑group 3”, in relation to an MNE group, means every
investment entity or insurance investment entity of the MNE
group;
“sub‑group 4”, in relation to an MNE group, means every
constituent entity (not being an investment entity or
insurance investment entity) of the MNE group.
[S 860/2025 wef 31/12/2025]
S 1062/2024
140
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

Top-up amount of constituent entities of sub‑group under
Simplified Calculations Safe Harbour
85A. Where
an
election
is
made
to
apply
the
Simplified
Calculations Safe Harbour under section 20(1)(b) to constituent
entities of a sub‑group for a financial year, then for the purposes of
section 20(2), the part of top-up amounts determined by the formula
(H × I) (as described in section 16(4)) for constituent entities of that
sub‑group for that financial year is treated as nil.
[S 860/2025 wef 31/12/2025]
Simplified calculations for NMCE
86.—(1) For the purposes of the tests in regulation 85(2), (3) and
(6), the filing entity of the MNE group may elect for the following:
(a) the GloBE income or loss of an NMCE of the MNE group
using total revenue as determined in accordance with the
relevant CbC Regulations;
(b) the adjusted revenue of such NMCE using total revenue as
determined
in
accordance
with
the
relevant
CbC
Regulations;
(c) the adjusted covered taxes in the calculation of the
effective tax rate for such NMCE using accrued current
tax expense as determined in accordance with the relevant
CbC Regulations.
(2) The election must be made in the GloBE information return for
the financial year.
(3) Separate elections must be made for each NMCE.
(4) In this regulation, “relevant CbC regulations” means —
(a) the law of the jurisdiction in which the ultimate parent
entity of the MNE group is located, implementing the
guidance on country‑by‑country reporting contained in the
OECD Guidance on Transfer Pricing Documentation and
Country‑by‑Country
Reporting,
published
in
September 2014 as amended from time to time;
(b) if a country-by-country report is not filed in the jurisdiction
mentioned in sub‑paragraph (a) — the law of the
S 1062/2024
141
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

jurisdiction in which its surrogate parent entity (as defined
in the OECD/G20 Base Erosion and Profit Shifting
Project (“BEPS”) Action 13 Final Report published in
October 2015) is located that implements the guidance
mentioned in that sub‑paragraph; or
(c) if the jurisdiction mentioned in sub‑paragraph (a) does not
have any law as described in that sub‑paragraph, and the
MNE group is not required to file a country‑by‑country
report in any jurisdiction — the BEPS Action 13 Final
Report published in October 2015, and the OECD
Guidance on the Implementation of Country‑by‑Country
Reporting published in May 2024.
(5) In this regulation, “country-by-country report” has the meaning
given by regulation 67(2).
PART 10
TRANSITION RULES
Application of this Part
87. This Part applies to a standalone JV or an entity of a JV group
with the following modifications:
(a) except in paragraph (b), references to an MNE group are to
the standalone JV or the JV group of which the entity is a
part;
(b) references to the filing entity of an MNE group are to the
filing entity of the MNE group to which the standalone JV
or entity is connected;
(c) subject to paragraph (d), references to a constituent entity
are to the standalone JV or the entity;
[S 129/2025 wef 25/02/2025]
(d) other modifications in the provisions of this Part.
[S 129/2025 wef 25/02/2025]
S 1062/2024
142
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

“Transition year”
88.—(1) In this Part, in determining the adjusted covered taxes of a
constituent entity (X) of an MNE group for the purposes of Part 2 of
the Act, “transition year” means —
(a) subject to sub‑paragraph (b), the first financial year that —
(i) X or any other constituent entity of that MNE group
located in the same jurisdiction as X comes within
the scope of the law of any jurisdiction imposing a
qualified IIR or a qualified UTPR; or
(ii) a chargeable entity of that MNE group is liable for
MTT in relation to X, or any other constituent entity
of that MNE group located in the same jurisdiction as
X, as a relevant entity, or would have been so liable if
X or any other such constituent entity were a relevant
entity,
(a) whichever is earlier; or
(b) where, starting from the first financial year mentioned in
sub‑paragraph (a), either or both of the following apply:
(i) X is eligible for the Transitional CbCR Safe Harbour
under regulation 69 or its equivalent in any other
jurisdiction (each called in this regulation the
TCbCR Safe Harbour);
(ii) section
19(4)
or
its
equivalent
in
any
other
jurisdiction applies to X (each called in this
regulation the de minimis exclusion),
(b) the first financial year that —
(iii) X loses its eligibility for the TCbCR Safe Harbour or
an election is not made to apply it to X; and
(iv) the de minimis exclusion does not apply to X.
[S 860/2025 wef 31/12/2025]
(2) In this Part, in determining the adjusted covered taxes of a
constituent entity (X) of an MNE group located in Singapore for the
purposes of Part 3 of the Act, “transition year” means —
S 1062/2024
143
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

(a) subject to sub‑paragraph (b), the first financial year —
(i) that any constituent entity of the MNE group located
in Singapore comes within the scope of the law of
any jurisdiction imposing a qualified IIR or a
qualified UTPR; or
(ii) for which the MNE group is liable to be registered
under Part 4 of the Act,
(a) whichever is earlier; or
(b) where, starting from the first financial year mentioned in
sub‑paragraph (a), either or both of the following apply:
(i) X is eligible for the TCbCR Safe Harbour;
(ii) the de minimis exclusion applies to X,
(b) the first financial year that —
(iii) X loses its eligibility for the TCbCR Safe Harbour or
an election is not made to apply it to X; and
(iv) the de minimis exclusion does not apply to X.
[S 860/2025 wef 31/12/2025]
(3) In this Part, in determining the adjusted covered taxes of a
section 29(b) entity (X) of an MNE group for the purposes of Part 3 of
the Act, “transition year” means the first financial year —
(a) that X comes within the scope of the law of any jurisdiction
imposing a qualified IIR or a qualified UTPR; or
(b) for which the MNE group is liable to be registered under
Part 4 of the Act,
whichever is earlier.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities must be taken into account in
constituent entity’s adjusted covered taxes
89.—(1) For
the
purposes
of
paragraph
1(1)(d)
of
the
First Schedule to the Act, each deferred tax asset or deferred tax
liability reflected or disclosed in the financial accounts of a
constituent entity of an MNE group as at the beginning of the
transition year of the constituent entity (except for those arising from
S 1062/2024
144
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

a blended CFC regime as defined in regulation 44(7)), must be taken
into account in determining the adjusted covered tax of the
constituent entity for the transition year and each subsequent
financial year.
[S 860/2025 wef 31/12/2025]
(2) The following apply for the purposes of paragraph (1):
(a) if the applicable domestic tax rate at which the deferred tax
asset is reflected or disclosed in the financial accounts is
less than the minimum rate and paragraph (3) does not
apply, the deferred tax asset must be taken into account at
that domestic tax rate;
(b) if the applicable domestic tax rate at which the deferred tax
liability is reflected or disclosed in the financial accounts is
less than the minimum rate, the deferred tax liability must
be taken into account at that domestic tax rate;
(c) if the applicable domestic tax rate at which the deferred tax
asset or deferred tax liability is reflected or disclosed in the
financial accounts is equal to or greater than the minimum
rate, the deferred tax asset or deferred tax liability must be
taken into account at the minimum rate;
(d) when taking into account the deferred tax asset, the impact
of any valuation adjustment or accounting recognition
adjustment with respect to the deferred tax asset must be
excluded.
(3) Where, in a case mentioned in paragraph (2)(a), the constituent
entity is able to demonstrate that, had it been required to determine its
GloBE income or loss for any year before the transition year under
paragraph 6 of the First Schedule to the Act, the deferred tax asset
would be attributable to a loss that is taken into account when
determining that GloBE income or loss, then the deferred tax asset
must be taken into account at the minimum rate.
S 1062/2024
145
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

Where deferred tax asset relates to a tax credit
90.—(1) This regulation applies in a case where —
(a) the deferred tax asset in regulation 89(1) relates to a tax
credit; and
(b) the applicable domestic tax rate at which the deferred tax
asset is reflected or disclosed in the financial accounts is
equal to or greater than the minimum rate.
(2) Despite regulation 89(2)(c), the amount of the deferred tax asset
to be taken into account in a case to which this regulation applies for
the purpose of regulation 89(1), is an amount determined by the
formula A × B, where —
(a) A is the amount determined by dividing —
(i) the amount of the deferred tax asset as reflected or
disclosed in the financial accounts; by
(ii) the tax rate at which the deferred tax asset is reflected
or disclosed in the financial accounts of the
constituent entity in the financial year immediately
before the transition year of the constituent entity;
and
(b) B is the minimum rate.
(3) If the tax rate at which a deferred tax asset is reflected or
disclosed in the financial accounts of the constituent entity changes in
a financial year after its transition year (called in this regulation the
re‑application year), the formula in paragraph (2) must be re‑applied
to the outstanding balance of the deferred tax asset reflected or
disclosed in the financial accounts at the beginning of the
re‑application year to determine the amount of the deferred tax
asset to be taken into account in determining the adjusted covered tax
of the constituent entity for the re‑application year, and each
subsequent financial year.
(4) For the purpose of the reapplication of the formula in
paragraph
(2)
under
paragraph
(3),
the
tax
rate
in
paragraph (2)(a)(ii) is to be replaced with the tax rate applied in
S 1062/2024
146
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

the financial accounts of the constituent entity in the re‑application
year.
Deferred tax asset or liability not to be taken into account in
certain circumstances
91.—(1) Despite regulation 89, a deferred tax asset reflected or
disclosed in the financial accounts of a constituent entity (X) of an
MNE group must not be taken into account in determining the
adjusted covered taxes of the constituent entity if the deferred tax
asset —
(a) arises as a result of a transaction entered in the period
between 1 December 2021 and the last day of a financial
year that is before the commencement of X’s transition
year, and in respect of an item that would not be taken into
account in computing X’s GloBE income or loss in a
financial year (FY0) in that period, had X been required to
determine its GloBE income or loss for FY0 under
paragraph 6 of the First Schedule to the Act;
(b) arises because of the occurrence of either of the following
in the period between 1 December 2021 and the last day of
a financial year that is before the commencement of X’s
transition year:
(i) the making available of a tax credit, or other tax
relief, pursuant to a governmental arrangement
concluded or amended after 30 November 2021,
and which does not arise independently of such
governmental arrangement;
(ii) the making (or modifying) of an election or of
another choice by X where the effect of the election
or choice is to change the taxable income attributable
to a transaction retrospectively; or
(c) is attributable to a loss occurring before the fifth financial
year before the financial year in which a corporate income
tax came into force in the jurisdiction in which X is located,
where the jurisdiction did not have a corporate income tax
S 1062/2024
147
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

before 1 December 2021 and where one is introduced on or
after that date.
(2) Despite regulation 89, a deferred tax asset or a deferred tax
liability reflected or disclosed in the financial accounts of a
constituent entity (X) of an MNE group must not be taken into
account in determining X’s adjusted covered taxes if the deferred tax
asset or deferred tax liability arises —
(a) in the period between 1 December 2021 and the last day of
a financial year that is before the commencement of X’s
transition year;
(b) because of a difference between the value of an asset or
liability upon which X based its computation of its
corporate income tax, and the value of the asset or
liability as recorded in its financial accounts; and
(c) in circumstances where a corporate income tax came into
force in the jurisdiction in which X is located, where the
jurisdiction did not have a corporate income tax before
1 December 2021 and where one is introduced on or after
that date.
(3) Despite paragraphs (1) and (2), where —
(a) any
deferred
tax
asset
arose
as
described
in
paragraph (1)(b) or (2), where the event mentioned in
paragraph (1)(b) or the corporate income tax mentioned in
paragraph (2) that gave rise to it occurred or came into
force on or before 18 November 2024; and
(b) the deferred tax asset is then reversed for a financial year in
an applicable grace period,
the amount of any deferred tax expense attributable to such reversal
may be included in X’s adjusted covered taxes for that financial year
for the purposes of regulation 89, but only to the extent that such
amount is consistent with the following (as applicable):
(c) a law in the jurisdiction in which X is located that is in force
on or before 18 November 2024;
S 1062/2024
148
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

(d) the accounting method or practice used by X with respect
to the deferred tax asset on that date;
(e) the terms of the governmental arrangement mentioned in
paragraph (1)(b)(i) on or before that date;
(f) the
effect
of
an
election
or
choice
mentioned
in
paragraph (1)(b)(ii) made (or modified) by X on or
before that date.
(4) The total amount of deferred tax expenses for all deferred tax
assets that may be included in X’s adjusted covered taxes for that
financial year under paragraph (3) must not exceed X’s grace period
amount.
(5) In this regulation —
“applicable grace period” means —
(a) in relation to a deferred tax asset that arises as
described in paragraph (1)(b)(i) or (ii) — all financial
years beginning on or after 1 January 2024 and before
1 January 2026 but not including a financial year that
ends after 30 June 2027; and
(b) in relation to a deferred tax asset that arises as
described in paragraph (2) — all financial years
beginning on or after 1 January 2025 and before
1 January 2027 but not including a financial year that
ends after 30 June 2028;
“governmental arrangement” means any agreement, ruling,
decree,
grant
or
similar
arrangement
with
a
central
government or an agency whose operations are under that
government’s
effective
control,
or
a
state
or
local
government;
“grace period amount”, in relation to X, means an amount that is
equal to the sum of 20% of the value of each deferred tax
asset that arose as described in paragraph (1)(b) or (2) where
the event mentioned in paragraph (1)(b) or the corporate
income tax mentioned in paragraph (2) that gave rise to it
S 1062/2024
149
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

occurred or came into force on or before 18 November
2024 —
(a) as first reflected or disclosed in X’s financial
accounts; and
(b) taken into account at the lower of the minimum rate
and the applicable domestic tax rate,
less any deferred tax expense that had been included in X’s
adjusted covered taxes under paragraph (3), or not excluded
in computing its simplified income tax expense under
paragraph
(c)
of
the
definition
of
that
term
in
regulation 66, for a previous financial year.
[S 860/2025 wef 31/12/2025]
Value of deferred tax asset or liability, and computation of
GloBE income or loss, in case of transfer of assets between
constituent entities before transition year
92.—(1) For the purposes of regulation 89(1), the value of the
deferred tax asset or deferred tax liability arising from a transfer of
assets (not being inventory) between constituent entities of an MNE
group after 30 November 2021 and before the commencement of the
first in‑scope year of the transferor (X), must be based on X’s carrying
value of the transferred assets upon the transfer.
(2) In paragraph (1), a reference to a transfer of assets between
constituent entities of an MNE group includes —
(a) a transaction between constituent entities of an MNE
group; and
(b) a transaction within the same constituent entity,
that does not result in a change in the ownership of the assets, if it has
a similar effect for accounting purposes to a change in ownership, and
in the case of sub‑paragraph (b), the constituent entity is treated as
both the transferor and the transferee for the purposes of this
regulation.
(3) For the purpose of paragraph (1), where either or both of the
following apply:
S 1062/2024
150
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

(a) covered tax in relation to the transfer of assets has been
paid by X in any jurisdiction, or would have been taken into
account in computing X’s adjusted covered taxes under
paragraph 1 of the First Schedule to the Act had the transfer
taken place after the commencement of X’s transition year;
(b) any loss of X arising in or at the beginning of the financial
year in which the transfer took place is offset against any
taxable income, and a deferred tax asset attributable to the
loss would have been taken into account for the purposes
of regulation 89(1) but for the offset,
then the sum of the covered tax in sub‑paragraph (a) and the value of
the deferred tax asset attributable to the loss in sub‑paragraph (b), up
to the amount computed by —
(c) working out the difference between X’s carrying value of
the asset upon the transfer and the value of the asset on
which the transferee based its computation of the covered
tax; and
(d) multiplying the difference by 15%,
is treated as the value of the deferred tax asset.
(4) Where the transition year of the transferee begins after the date
of the transfer of assets, the value of the deferred tax asset for the
purpose of paragraph (1) or (3) must be adjusted to take into
account —
(a) any subsequent capitalised expenditure incurred in respect
of the assets; and
(b) amortisation and depreciation of the assets that would have
been recognised by the transferor had the transfer not
occurred.
(5) Where the sum of the matters in paragraph (3)(a) and (b) equals
or exceeds the amount computed by paragraph (3)(c) and (d), the
transferee need not apply paragraph (1) in relation to the transfer of
assets described in that paragraph.
[S 860/2025 wef 31/12/2025]
S 1062/2024
151
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

(6) The transferee’s GloBE income or loss arising from the transfer
of assets described in paragraph (1) is also to be based on X’s carrying
value of the transferred assets upon the transfer, and paragraphs (2) to
(5) apply for this purpose.
[S 129/2025 wef 25/02/2025]
Adjustments for DTT computation where there is new
transition year
93.—(1) This regulation applies where —
(a) an MNE group of which a constituent entity located in
Singapore (including a section 29(b) entity) (X) is one to
which the Act applies for a financial year for the first time;
[S 129/2025 wef 25/02/2025]
[S 860/2025 wef 31/12/2025]
(aa) in that financial year —
(i) where X is a constituent entity of the MNE group
located in Singapore — no constituent entity of the
MNE group located in Singapore is; or
(ii) where X is a section 29(b) entity — X is not,
(aa) within the scope of the law of any jurisdiction imposing a
qualified IIR or a qualified UTPR; and
[S 129/2025 wef 25/02/2025]
[S 860/2025 wef 31/12/2025]
(b) an entity, or the entity, in the second column corresponding
to the description of X in the first column then comes
within the scope of the law of any jurisdiction imposing a
qualified IIR or a qualified UTPR:
First column
Second column
1. Where X is a constituent
entity of the MNE group
located in Singapore
Any constituent entity of the
MNE group located in Singapore
2. Where X is a section 29(b)
entity
X
S 1062/2024
152
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

3. [Deleted by S 129/2025 wef
25/02/2025]
4. [Deleted by S 129/2025 wef
25/02/2025]
[S 129/2025 wef 25/02/2025]
(1A) Where, starting from the financial year mentioned in
paragraph (1)(a), one or both of the following apply:
(a) X is eligible for a Transitional CbCR Safe Harbour under
regulation 69;
(b) section 19(4) (de minimis exclusion) applies to X,
then paragraph (1) applies as if the financial year mentioned in
paragraph (1)(aa) were the first financial year that —
(c) X loses its eligibility for the Transitional CbCR Safe
Harbour or an election is not made to apply it to X; and
(d) section 19(4) does not apply to X.
[S 860/2025 wef 31/12/2025]
(2) In this regulation —
“DTT computation”, for a financial year, means determining the
amount of adjusted covered taxes of X in order to determine
X’s effective tax rate for the purpose of computing the amount
of DTT payable in respect of the MNE group for that year;
“new transition year” is the financial year in which the event
described in paragraph (1)(b) occurs.
(3) For DTT computation for the new transition year, any negative
tax carried forward for X under section 17(4) or 21(2) at the beginning
of the new transition year must be eliminated.
[S 129/2025 wef 25/02/2025]
S 1062/2024
153
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

(4) Regulation 46(2) —
(a) does not apply to any deferred tax liability —
(i) that was taken into account for DTTcomputation and
where the deferred tax liability arose in a financial
year prior to the new transition year; and
[S 860/2025 wef 31/12/2025]
(ii) that was not recaptured prior to the new transition
year; but
(b) applies to any deferred tax liability that is taken into
account for DTT computation and where the deferred tax
liability arose in the new transition year or a subsequent
financial year.
[S 860/2025 wef 31/12/2025]
(5) For DTT computation for the new transition year, any amount
treated as a special loss deferred tax asset under regulation 47(3)(b)
for a financial year preceding the new transition year must be
eliminated; but the filing entity of the MNE group of which X is a part
may make a new election in accordance with regulation 47(1) for the
new transition year.
(6) For DTT computation for the new transition year, any deferred
tax asset or deferred tax liability taken into account for DTT
computation for any financial year before the new transition year
must be eliminated; and the deferred tax assets and deferred tax
liabilities
must
be
determined
afresh
in
accordance
with
regulations 89, 90, 91 and 92 (whichever is applicable) at the
beginning of the new transition year.
(7) For DTT computation for the new transition year, any deferred
tax asset —
(a) reflected or disclosed in X’s financial accounts as a result
of a transaction entered into after 30 November 2021 and
before the beginning of the new transition year; and
(b) in respect of an item that would not be taken into account in
computing X’s GloBE income or loss in that financial year,
had X been required to determine its GloBE income or loss
S 1062/2024
154
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

for
that
financial
year
under
paragraph
6
of
the
First Schedule to the Act,
must not be taken into account in determining X’s adjusted covered
taxes.
(8) Paragraph (7) does not apply to any deferred tax asset —
(a) that is attributable to a tax loss that gave rise to an
additional
current
top‑up
amount
mentioned
in
section 21(1); and
(b) that arises from a transaction in respect of which DTT is
payable in Singapore.
(9) This regulation applies to a standalone JV located in Singapore,
or an entity of a JV group located in Singapore, connected to an MNE
group, as it applies to a constituent entity of an MNE group located in
Singapore, and for this purpose —
(a) in the case of the standalone JV — a reference to a
constituent entity that is within or that comes within the
scope of the law of any jurisdiction imposing a qualified
IIR or a qualified UTPR, is to the standalone JV that is
within or that comes within the scope of such law; and
(b) in the case of the entity of the JV group — a reference to a
constituent entity that is within or that comes within the
scope of the law of any jurisdiction imposing a qualified
IIR or a qualified UTPR, is to any entity of the JV group
that is within or that comes within the scope of such law.
[S 129/2025 wef 25/02/2025]
PART 11
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
Formula for determining top-up amounts of entities
94.—(1) This regulation sets out the formula for determining the
top-up amounts in respect of each of the constituent entities referred
to in section 16(3) for the financial year referred to in that provision,
if either —
S 1062/2024
155
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

(a) those constituent entities have an additional current top-up
amount under section 21(1) (C) and also an additional
current top-up amount under section 21(4) (D) for that
financial year; or
(b) those constituent entities have an additional current top-up
amount under section 21(4) (D) but not an additional
current top-up amount under section 21(1) (C) for that
financial year, and D results from a recalculation under
section 21(4) for more than one previous financial year.
[S 860/2025 wef 31/12/2025]
(2) The top-up amount is the sum of —
(a) the amount determined by the formula in section 16(3)(a),
with the reference to A in the formula replaced by an
amount computed by the formula —
C  K  C/ C þ D
ð
Þ
ð
Þ; and
(b) the amount for each previous financial year for which the
recalculation in section 21(4) was made, as determined by
the formula in section 16(3)(b), with the reference to A in
the formula replaced by an amount computed by the
formula —
D1  K  D1/ C þ D
ð
Þ
ð
Þ;
where —
(c) K has the meaning given by section 16(4)(d), as modified
(in the case of Part 3 of the Act) by section 30(2)(b); and
(d) D1 is the amount computed under section 21(4) for that
previous financial year.
(3) Paragraphs (1) and (2) apply to constituent entities referred to in
section 24(4) that are investment entities or insurance investment
entities as they apply to constituent entities referred to in
section 16(3), with the following modifications:
S 1062/2024
156
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

(a) a reference to the formula in section 16(3)(a) and to A in
that formula is to the formula in section 24(4)(a) and to A
in that formula;
(b) a reference to the formula in section 16(3)(b) and to A in
that formula is to the formula in section 24(4)(b) and to A
in that formula;
(c) a reference to section 21(1) or section 21(4) is to that
provision as applied by section 24(13);
(d) a reference to K is to K as defined in section 24(5)(d).
(4) Paragraphs (1), (2) and (3) apply to a standalone JVor an entity
of a JV group for the purpose of section 25(2) as if a reference to a
constituent entity were to the standalone JV or the entity.
Adjustments in computing “adjusted revenue” for de minimis
exclusion
95. For the purpose of section 19(6) (including that provision as
applied by section 25(2)), in arriving at the adjusted revenue for a
financial year of an entity, the adjustments to be made to the revenue
of the entity that is taken into account in its FANIL for the financial
year are any increase or decrease in its FANIL in determining its
GloBE income or loss that affects the amount of its revenue, other
than —
(a) any increase or decrease in respect of expenses; or
(b) any decrease in the entity’s revenue or GloBE income or
loss for the financial year resulting from a recalculation
under section 21(4) (including that provision as applied by
section 25(2)) of its top‑up amount or effective tax rate for
the financial year, in a subsequent financial year.
S 1062/2024
157
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

Qualified domestic minimum top-up taxes
96.—(1) A tax imposed by each law of a jurisdiction set out under
the column entitled “Domestic law” in the table under the heading
“Qualified Domestic Minimum Top-up Tax Rules and QDMTT Safe
Harbours” (as amended from time to time) on the prescribed
webpage, is prescribed as a tax that is equivalent in effect as the
DTT for the purposes of the Act.
(2) Such tax is also a tax to which regulation 78 applies if, in that
table, the word “yes” is indicated under the column entitled “QDMTT
Safe Harbour”, opposite the law imposing it.
(3) Such tax is a tax prescribed under paragraph (1) and (as the case
may be) a tax described in paragraph (2), with effect from the date
indicated under the column entitled “Effective date” in that table,
opposite the law imposing it.
(4) In this regulation and regulation 97, the prescribed webpage is
the
webpage
entitled
“Central
Record
of
Legislation
with
Transitional Qualified Status” (or any name replacing it), as
amended from time to time, that is accessible on the website
https://www.oecd.org.
[S 860/2025 wef 31/12/2025]
Qualified IIR
97.—(1) A tax imposed by each law of a jurisdiction set out under
the column entitled “Domestic law” in the table under the heading
“Qualified Income Inclusion Rules” (as amended from time to time)
on the prescribed webpage, is prescribed as a tax that is equivalent in
effect as the MTT for the purposes of the Act.
(2) Such tax is a tax prescribed under paragraph (1) with effect from
the date indicated under the column entitled “Effective date” in that
table, opposite the law imposing it.
[S 860/2025 wef 31/12/2025]
Other documents forming GloBE rules
98. The following documents are prescribed for the purposes of
paragraph (i) of the definition of “GloBE rules” in section 2(1):
S 1062/2024
158
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025

(a) the document entitled “Tax Challenges Arising from the
Digitalisation of the Economy — Administrative Guidance
on Article 9.1 of the Global Anti-Base Erosion Model
Rules”, published by the OECD on 15 January 2025;
(b) the document entitled “Tax Challenges Arising from the
Digitalisation of the Economy — Administrative Guidance
on Article 8.1.4 and 8.1.5 of the Global Anti-Base Erosion
Model Rules (January 2025)”, published by the OECD on
15 January 2025;
(c) the document entitled “Tax Challenges Arising from the
Digitalisation
of
the
Economy
—
Consolidated
Commentary to the Global Anti-Base Erosion Model
Rules (2025)”, published by the OECD on 9 May 2025;
(d) the document entitled “Tax Challenges Arising from the
Digitalisation of the Economy — Global Anti-Base
Erosion Model Rules (Pillar Two) Examples”, published
by the OECD on 9 May 2025.
[S 860/2025 wef 31/12/2025]
Made on 27 December 2024.
LAI CHUNG HAN
Permanent Secretary (Development),
Ministry of Finance,
Singapore.
[AG/LEGIS/SL/190C/2020/3]
S 1062/2024
159
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/12/2025
