THE SCHEDULE
The Third Protocol to the Agreement
Between
The Government of the Republic of Singapore
And
The Government of the People’s Republic of China
For
the Avoidance of Double Taxation
and
The Prevention of Fiscal Evasion
With Respect to Taxes on Income
The Government of the Republic of Singapore and the Government of the People’s Republic of China,
Having regard to the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Singapore and the Government of the People’s Republic of China for the Avoidance of Double Taxation and the Prevention of Fiscal Evasion with respect to Taxes on Income, signed at Singapore on 11th day of July 2007 (hereinafter referred to as “the Agreement”),
Have agreed that the following provisions shall form an integral part of the Agreement:
Article 1
With respect to Article 25 of the Agreement, paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 shall be deleted and replaced by the following:
“
1. The competent authorities of the Contracting States shall exchange such information as is foreseeably relevant for carrying out the provisions of this Agreement or to the administration or enforcement of the domestic laws concerning taxes of every kind and description imposed on behalf of the Contracting States or local authorities, insofar as the taxation thereunder is not contrary to the Agreement. The exchange of information is not restricted by Articles 1 and 2.
2. Any information received under paragraph 1 by a Contracting State shall be treated as secret in the same manner as information obtained under the domestic laws of that State and shall be disclosed only to persons or authorities (including courts and administrative bodies) concerned with the assessment or collection of, the enforcement or prosecution in respect of, the determination of appeals in relation to the taxes referred to in paragraph 1, or the oversight of the above. Such persons or authorities shall use the information only for such purposes. They may disclose the information in public court proceedings or in judicial decisions.
3. In no case shall the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 be construed so as to impose on a Contracting State the obligation:
(
a
)
to carry out administrative measures at variance with the laws and administrative practice of that or of the other Contracting State;
(
b
)
to supply information which is not obtainable under the laws or in the normal course of the administration of that or of the other Contracting State;
(
c
)
to supply information which would disclose any trade, business, industrial, commercial or professional secret or trade process, or information, the disclosure of which would be contrary to public policy (ordre public).
4. If information is requested by a Contracting State in accordance with this Article, the other Contracting State shall use its information gathering measures to obtain the requested information, even though that other State may not need such information for its own tax purposes. The obligation contained in the preceding sentence is subject to the limitations of paragraph 3 but in no case shall such limitations be construed to permit a Contracting State to decline to supply information solely because it has no domestic interest in such information.
5. In no case shall the provisions of paragraph 3 be construed to permit a Contracting State to decline to supply information solely because the information is held by a bank, other financial institution, nominee or person acting in an agency or a fiduciary capacity or because it relates to ownership interests in a person.
”.
Article 2
The Contracting States shall notify each other through diplomatic channels that the procedures required by its laws for the entry into force of this Third Protocol have been complied with. This Third Protocol shall enter into force on the date of the receipt of the later notification. The provisions of this Third Protocol shall have effect in respect of taxes relating to taxable periods on or after 1 January of the calendar year next following the year of the entry into force of this Third Protocol.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the undersigned, duly authorized thereto, have signed this Protocol.
DONE at Beijing on this 23rd day of July 2010 in duplicate, in the Chinese and English languages, both texts being equally authentic.
FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF
THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF
THE PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
MOSES LEE
Commissioner of Inland Revenue
.
WANG LI
Deputy Commissioner of State Administration of Taxation
.