 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
AGREEMENT 
BETWEEN 
THE 
HONG 
KONG 
SPECIAL 
ADMINISTRATIVE REGION OF THE PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF 
CHINA AND THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE FOR THE 
AVOIDANCE OF DOUBLE TAXATION ON INCOME OF AN 
ENTERPRISE 
OPERATING 
SHIPS 
OR 
AIRCRAFT 
IN 
INTERNATIONAL TRAFFIC 
The Government of the Hong Kong Special Administrative 
Region of the People’s Republic of China (“the Hong Kong Special 
Administrative Region”) and the Government of the Republic of Singapore 
(“Singapore”), 
Desiring to conclude an Agreement for the avoidance of double 
taxation on income of an enterprise operating ships or aircraft in 
international traffic;  
Have agreed as follows: 
Article 1 
TAXES COVERED 
1. 
The existing taxes to which this Agreement shall apply are: 
(a) in the case of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, 
profits tax and salaries tax; 
(b) in the case of Singapore, the income tax.  
2. 
This Agreement shall also apply to any identical or substantially 
similar taxes which are imposed by either Contracting Party after the 
signature of this Agreement in addition to, or in place of, the existing taxes 
referred to in paragraph (1) of this Article.  The competent authorities of the 
Contracting Parties shall notify each other of any substantial changes which 
have been made in their respective taxation laws.  
1 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Article 2 
GENERAL DEFINITIONS 
1. 
For the purposes of this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires: 
(a) the term "a Contracting Party” means the Hong Kong Special 
Administrative Region or Singapore, as the context requires; 
(b) the term “Contracting Parties” means the Hong Kong Special 
Administrative Region and Singapore; 
(c) the term “person” includes an individual, a company and any other 
body of persons, whether incorporated or unincorporated; 
(d) the term “an enterprise of a Contracting Party” means an 
enterprise carried on by - 
(i) 
a company or body of persons managed and controlled in  the 
Hong Kong Special Administrative Region or Singapore, as the 
case may be; or 
(ii) an individual who: 
(aa) in the case of the Hong Kong Special Administrative 
Region is a permanent or temporary resident for the 
purpose of the Inland Revenue Ordinance; 
(bb) in the case of Singapore is a resident for the purpose of 
Singapore income tax; 
(e) the term “international traffic” means any transport by a ship or 
aircraft operated by an enterprise of a Contracting Party except when 
the ship or aircraft is operated solely between places in the other 
Contracting Party; 
2 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(f) the term “competent authority” means, in the case of the Hong 
Kong Special Administrative Region, the Commissioner of Inland 
Revenue or his authorised representative or any person or body 
authorised to perform any functions at present exercisable by the 
Commissioner, or similar functions and, in the case of Singapore, the 
Minister for Finance or his authorised representative; 
(g) the term “income” includes revenues, gross receipts and profits 
from the operation of ships or aircraft for the transport of persons, 
livestock, goods, mail or merchandise including: 
(i) 
profits from rental on a bareboat charter basis of ships or 
aircraft where the rental is incidental to the operation of ships or 
aircraft in international traffic; 
(ii) 
income or profits from the sale of tickets or similar 
documents and the provision of services connected with such 
transport where such provision of services is incidental to the 
operation of ships or aircraft in international traffic, either for the 
enterprise itself or for any other enterprise; 
(iii) profits from the use, maintenance or rental of containers 
(including trailers and related equipment for the transport of 
containers) used for the transport of goods or merchandise, where 
the use, maintenance or rental is incidental to the operation of 
ships or aircraft in international traffic; 
(iv) 
interest on funds deposited directly in connection with the 
operation of ships or aircraft in international traffic. 
2. 
As regards the application of this Agreement at any time by a 
Contracting Party, any term not defined therein shall, unless the context 
otherwise requires, have the meaning that it has at that time under the law of 
that Contracting Party concerning the taxes to which this Agreement applies, 
any meaning under the applicable tax laws of that Contracting Party 
prevailing over a meaning given to the term under other laws of that 
Contracting Party.  
3 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Article 3 
SHIPPING AND AIR TRANSPORT 
1. 
Income derived from the operation of ships or aircraft in 
international traffic by an enterprise of a Contracting Party shall be exempt 
from taxes imposed on income in the other Contracting Party. 
2. 
Gains derived by an enterprise of a Contracting Party from the 
alienation of ships or aircraft operated in international traffic and movable 
property pertaining to the operation of such ships or aircraft shall be exempt 
from taxes imposed in the other Contracting Party. 
3. 
The provisions of paragraphs (1) and (2) of this Article shall also 
apply to income or gains from the participation in a pool, a joint business or 
an international operating agency. 
4. 
Remuneration in respect of an employment exercised aboard a 
ship or aircraft operated in international traffic by an enterprise of a 
Contracting Party shall be taxable only in that Contracting Party.  However, 
if the remuneration is derived by a resident of the other Contracting Party, it 
may also be taxed in that other Contracting Party. 
Article 4 
MUTUAL AGREEMENT PROCEDURE 
The competent authorities of the Contracting Parties shall endeavour 
to resolve by consultation any difficulties or doubts arising as to the 
interpretation or application of this Agreement.   
4 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Article 6 
 
 
TERMINATION 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Article 5 
ENTRY INTO FORCE 
Each Contracting Party shall notify to the other the completion of 
the procedures required by its law for the bringing into force of this Agreement.  
This Agreement shall enter into force on the date of the later of these 
notifications and shall thereupon have effect: 
(a) in the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, for any year of 
assessment beginning on or after 1 April in the calendar year next 
following that in which this Agreement enters into force; 
(b) in Singapore, in respect of tax chargeable for any year of assessment 
beginning on or after 1 January in the second calendar year next 
following the year in which this Agreement enters into force. 
This Agreement shall remain in force indefinitely but either 
Contracting Party may terminate this Agreement by giving written notice of 
termination at least six months before the end of any calendar year after the 
expiration of five years from the date of its entry into force.  In such event, this 
Agreement shall cease to have effect:  
(a) in the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, for any year of 
assessment beginning on or after 1 April in the calendar year next 
following that in which notice is given; 
(b) in Singapore, in respect of tax chargeable for any year of 
assessment beginning on or after 1 January in the second calendar year 
next following the year in which notice is given.  
5 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In witness whereof the undersigned, being duly authorised by their 
respective Governments, have signed this Agreement. 
Done in duplicate, at Singapore this 28th day of November 2003, 
in the English language. 
For the Government of the Hong 
For the Government of the 
Kong 
Special 
Administrative 
Republic of Singapore 
Region of the People's Republic of 
China 
………………………………… 
…………………………………  
6 
